



Foolish beast... you dulled your mandibles by gnawing on my indestructible body. No wonder you were defeated by this weakling!






You there! Why are you skulking about in the shadows?
Yes, your eyes do not deceive you. I am Zote the Mighty, a knight of great renown. Tremble before me!
While you were hiding here in your dingy little village, I ventured into the dark pit below us and slew a great beast. It had sharp mandibles and atrocious manners.
Yes, yes. All glory to me. But I don't have time for your adulation! I must rest and prepare for my next journey down.
That daft old fellow over there... He keeps talking absolute drivel. Seems to think the very air is deadly down in the caverns. Perhaps he should consider not breathing.
He keeps talking about dreams, too. Pfah! Dreams are for those too feeble to truly live.
Hmph. What a squalid little hamlet this is.The air is foul and the townsfolk have beady eyes. I'll be heading back down below as soon as possible



This dreary place... it reminds me of home. How ghastly…






Hoy! Watch where you're going, you soggy vagabond! I don't want you splashing me. I've had a miserable time trying to keep dry.
I am Zote the Mighty, a knight of great renown. If I decide that I'm going to stay dry, then that's what's going to happen!
Curse this wretched city! Water and monsters constantly fall from above! It's no wonder this blasted kingdom fell to ruin...
Have you seen them? The guards who still patrol this city, even after dying?
Hmph. Being overly devoted to one's duties is no virtue.
I suppose you're impressed by how tall the towers are here. Hmph. I've seen much taller towers in my travels. Much nicer, too.



Why does the air weep? Is this kingdom trying to mock me? I shed my last tear long ago…






Hoy! What are you doing, you clumsy little oaf?! Swinging your rusty little nail around in the darkness?
You almost struck me! And if you had, it would have been the end of you. Trust me!
I am Zote the Mighty, a knight of great renown. My weapon, 'Life Ender' has struck down hundreds of foes. Begone, or you'll be next!



Hmm? Are you lost in these dark tunnels? I don't care.
No, I won't lead you out. I know the way, due to my powerful memory, but I only travel alone. Begone.



So, the kingdom was hiding this dark nest full of deadly predators. Well, now the deadliest predator of all is here...
...Zote the Mighty!






Hmm? What do you want, cur? Have you come to laugh at me as well?
Fools! Did you never consider that being trapped in this cage was precisely what I intended?!
Yes, by all means, release me into your arena!
I am Zote the Mighty! And as soon as I draw my nail, 'Life Ender', your laughter will turn into terror!
I have been fighting my whole life. I've slain hundreds, nay thousands, of foes.
And these fools think to face me in combat? Madness! It seems they've been gripped by a powerful desire to be destroyed.
Very well then. Zote the Mighty will grant them their desire…



Leave me be, you lowly worm! I must rest before my great battle. Pray we do not meet in the arena…



How miserable, to be stuck here instead of continuing my quest...
I came to this kingdom to fulfill a promise... and that is what I will do…



Another fool to be cut down by Life Ender...
I'll kill a thousand more... Will that be enough, father?
Fear not, cur... Your death will be swift



Go on, cur! Scurry away! Lest I humiliate you further!






... but that's not the only danger I had to overcome in my quest for glory! You've noticed this trophy, haven't you? A keepsake from my final, triumphant battle deep in the pit below us.
Yes, 'Life Ender' claimed another victim, and the crowd erupted into ecstatic cheering. Cheering that was both loud and utterly sincere.
To what do I owe my long string of triumphs and victories, you ask? As I said earlier, the key is in my personal philosophy, the 'Fifty-Seven Precepts of Zote'. Particularly relevant here is the first precept: "Always Win Your Battles". As for the other fifty-six precepts? Well…


I came to this kingdom to fulfill a promise... and now I have succeeded!
That promise I made so long ago... A promise to myself...
A promise of glory! Glory for I, Zote the Mighty! I never doubted myself, never faltered, and now I have achieved everything I desired.


 'Always Win Your Battles'.
Losing a battle earns you nothing and teaches you nothing. Win your battles, or don't engage in them at all!


 'Never Let Them Laugh at You'.
Fools laugh at everything, even at their superiors. But beware, laughter isn't harmless! Laughter spreads like a disease, and soon everyone is laughing at you.You need to strike at the source of this perverse merriment quickly to stop it from spreading.


 'Always Be Rested'.
Fighting and adventuring take their toll on your body. When you rest, your body strengthens and repairs itself. The longer you rest, the stronger you become.


 'Forget Your Past'.
The past is painful, and thinking about your past can only bring you misery. Think about something else instead, such as the future, or some food.


 'Strength Beats Strength'.
Is your opponent strong? No matter! Simply overcome their strength with even more strength, and they'll soon be defeated.


 'Choose Your Own Fate'.
Our elders teach that our fate is chosen for us before we are even born. I disagree.


 'Mourn Not the Dead'.
When we die, do things get better for us or worse? There's no way to tell, so we shouldn't bother mourning. Or celebrating for that matter.


 'Travel Alone'.
You can rely on nobody, and nobody will always be loyal. Therefore, nobody should be your constant companion.


 'Keep Your Home Tidy'.
Your home is where you keep your most prized possession - yourself. Therefore, you should make an effort to keep it nice and clean.


 'Keep Your Weapon Sharp'.
I make sure that my weapon, 'Life Ender', is kept well-sharpened at all times. This makes it much easier to cut things.


 'Mothers Will Always Betray You'.
This precept explains itself.


 'Keep Your Cloak Dry'.
If your cloak gets wet, dry it as soon as you can. Wearing wet cloaks is unpleasant, and can lead to illness.


 'Never Be Afraid'.
Fear can only hold you back. Facing your fears can be a tremendous effort. Therefore, you should just not be afraid in the first place.


 'Respect Your Superiors'.
If someone is your superior in strength or intellect or both, you need to show them your respect. Don't ignore them or laugh at them.


 'One Foe, One Blow'.
You should only use a single blow to defeat an enemy. Any more is a waste. Also, by counting your blows as you fight, you'll know how many foes you've defeated.


 'Don't Hesitate'.
Once you've made a decision, carry it out and don't look back. You'll achieve much more this way.


 'Believe In Your Strength'.
Others may doubt you, but there's someone you can always trust. Yourself. Make sure to believe in your own strength, and you will never falter.


 'Seek Truth in the Darkness'.
This precept also explains itself.


 'If You Try, Succeed'.
If you're going to attempt something, make sure you achieve it. If you do not succeed, then you have actually failed! Avoid this at all costs.


 'Speak Only the Truth'.
When speaking to someone, it is courteous and also efficient to speak truthfully. Beware though that speaking truthfully may make you enemies. This is something you'll have to bear.


 'Be Aware of Your Surroundings'.
Don't just walk along staring at the ground! You need to look up every so often, to make sure nothing takes you by surprise.


 'Abandon the Nest'.
As soon as I could, I left my birthplace and made my way out into the world. Do not linger in the nest. There is nothing for you there.


 'Identify the Foe's Weak Point'.
Every foe you encounter has a weak point, such as a crack in their shell or being asleep. You must constantly be alert and scrutinising your enemy to detect their weakness!


 'Strike the Foe's Weak Point'.
Once you have identified your foe's weak point as per the previous precept, strike it. This will instantly destroy them.


 'Protect Your Own Weak Point'.
Be aware that your foe will try to identify your weak point, so you must protect it. The best protection? Never having a weak point in the first place.


 'Don't Trust Your Reflection'.
When peering at certain shining surfaces, you may see a copy of your own face. The face will mimic your movements and seems similar to your own, but I don't think it can be trusted.


 'Eat As Much As You Can'.
When having a meal, eat as much as you possibly can. This gives you extra energy, and means you can eat less frequently.


 'Don't Peer Into the Darkness'.
If you peer into the darkness and can't see anything for too long, your mind will start to linger over old memories. Memories are to be avoided, as per Precept Four.


 'Develop Your Sense of Direction'.
It's easy to get lost when travelling through winding, twisting caverns. Having a good sense of direction is like having a magical map inside of your head. Very useful.


 'Never Accept a Promise'.
Spurn the promises of others, as they are always broken. Promises of love or betrothal are to be avoided especially.


 'Disease Lives Inside of Dirt.
You'll get sick if you spend too much time in filthy places. If you are staying in someone else's home, demand the highest level of cleanliness from your host.


 'Names Have Power'.
Names have power, and so to name something is to grant it power. I myself named my nail 'Life Ender'. Do not steal the name I came up with! Invent your own!


 'Show the Enemy No Respect'.
Being gallant to your enemies is no virtue! If someone opposes you, they don't deserve respect or kindness or mercy.


 'Don't Eat Immediately Before Sleeping'.
This can cause restlessness and indigestion. It's just common sense.


 'Up is Up, Down is Down'.
If you fall over in the darkness, it can be easy to lose your bearing and forget which way is up. Keep this precept in mind!


 'Eggshells are brittle'.
Once again, this precept explains itself.


 'Borrow, But Do Not Lend'.
If you lend and are repaid, you gain nothing. If you borrow but do not repay, you gain everything.


 'Beware the Mysterious Force'.
A mysterious force bears down on us from above, pushing us downwards. If you spend too long in the air, the force will crush you against the ground and destroy you. Beware!


 'Eat Quickly and Drink Slowly'.
Your body is a delicate thing and you must fuel it with great deliberation. Food must go in as fast as possible, but fluids at a slower rate.


 'Obey No Law But Your Own'.
Laws written by others may inconvenience you or be a burden. Let your own desires be the only law.


 'Learn to Detect Lies'.
When others speak, they usually lie. Scrutinise and question them relentlessly until they reveal their deceit.


 'Spend Geo When You Have It'.
Some will cling onto their Geo, even taking it into the dirt with them when they die. It is better to spend it when you can, so you can enjoy various things in life.


 'Never Forgive'.
If someone asks forgiveness of you, for instance a brother of yours, always deny it. That brother, or whoever it is, doesn't deserve such a thing.


 'You Can Not Breathe Water'.
Water is refreshing, but if you try to breathe it you are in for a nasty shock.


 'One Thing Is Not Another'.
This one should be obvious, but I've had others try to argue that one thing, which is clearly what it is and not something else, is actually some other thing, which it isn't. Stay on your guard!


 'The World is Smaller Than You Think'.
When young, you tend to think that the world is vast, huge, gigantic. It's only natural. Unfortunately, it's actually quite a lot smaller than that. I can say this, now having travelled everywhere in the land.


 'Make Your Own Weapon'.
Only you know exactly what is needed in your weapon. I myself fashioned 'Life Ender' from shellwood at a young age. It has never failed me. Nor I it.


 'Be Careful With Fire'.
Fire is a type of hot spirit that dances about recklessly. It can warm you and provide light, but it will also singe your shell if it gets too close.


 'Statues are Meaningless'.
Do not honour them! No one has ever made a statue of you or I, so why should we pay them any attention?


 'Don't Linger on Mysteries'.
Some things in this world appear to us as puzzles. Or enigmas. If the meaning behind something is not immediately evident though, don't waste any time thinking about it. Just move on.


 'Nothing is Harmless'.
Given the chance, everything in this world will hurt you. Friends, foes, monsters, uneven paths. Be suspicious of them all.


 'Beware the Jealousy of Fathers'.
Fathers believe that because they created us we must serve them and never exceed their capabilities. If you wish to forge your own path, you must vanquish your father. Or simply abandon him.


 'Do Not Steal the Desires of Others'.
Every creature keeps their desires locked up inside of themselves. If you catch a glimpse of another's desires, resist the urge to claim them as your own. It will not lead you to happiness.


 'If You Lock Something Away, Keep the Key'.
Nothing should be locked away for ever, so hold onto your keys. You will eventually return and unlock everything you hid away.


 'Bow to No-one'.
There are those in this world who would impose their will on others. They claim ownership over your food, your land, your body, and even your thoughts!They have done nothing to earn these things. Never bow to them, and make sure to disobey their commands.


 'Do Not Dream'.
Dreams are dangerous things. Strange ideas, not your own, can worm their way into your mind. But if you resist those ideas, sickness will wrack your body! Best not to dream at all, like me.


 'Obey All Precepts'.
Most importantly, you must commit all of these precepts to memory and obey them all unfailingly. Including this one! Hmm. Have you truly listened to everything I've said? Let's start again and repeat the 'Fifty-Seven Precepts of Zote'.







Ohhh... please... don't leave me behind!
You... forgot about me...?
I knew you would... everyone always forgets about me...
Oh?! Who are you?
Your face... you're so... so...
I-I'm sorry. I got lost, I don't know how I ended up here. I... you came here to rescue me, Bretta? The girl that everyone just... ignores?
Sorry, when I look at your face I can hardly... I just can't believe you came all the way down here to rescue me. I didn't think anybody...
Sorry... I mean, thank you. I'd better go. Back to town I mean. I'd better get home.
Th... thank you.



...Shining figure...So bright…




 The White Saviour
The maiden woke in darkness. Confused she reached out. Sharp brambles jabbed at all sides. Burning acid bubbled close below. What nightmare had led her here? What hope of survival remained?
Doomed she thought herself and to despair she fell, until a light bloomed far in the distance, a bright, glowing spot fast approaching. It swept majestic about the thorns, leapt above burning waters and dove towards the maiden.
Coming close, the form revealed at last, a beautiful being, sharp horns gleaming white. Arms reached out for the damsel, gathering her up, grip firm…


 The White Saviour Returns
Long had they remained apart and the village, once so warm, now grew cold. The maiden felt the well of grief. It gripped fierce about her lonely shell.
And suddenly, as though her tragic state was sensed, the saviour returned, standing tall, glowing bright. Below shining horns, eyes welled black, glistening, eyes only for the maiden long missed, long desired.
Her saviour leaned close, sat beside, perfectly composed. In that charged, breathless moment not a word needed be spoken. The maiden's shell felt suddenly tight. Her claws curled. No glance was shared, no claws touched, just perfect, aching love shared in silence, together…


 The White Saviour in Darkness
Troubled dreams beset the maiden. Her saviour gone, consumed below. Now her only companion the cold wind, moaning at her door. Her heart fluttered with sudden fear...
Then still. A sudden calm. Why? A presence. A figure close behind.
She doesn't dare look, doesn't dare move, fearful the slightest action would break the spell. She knew the presence at her bed, knew the calm only they could bring.
Her white saviour, now protector, standing tall beside, powerful, perfect…


 The Grey Prince
Heaving heavy breaths, flush from the exertion of battle, the figure emerged from the well. Triumph was his and trophy he bore to prove it, the fearsome skull of his vanquished opponent.
 the white saviour, thought a hero by the bugs, was a vicious beast and this shrouded grey prince was in truth the hero deserved. With honour and humility he recounted his quest below, his epic journey of one purpose, to find her, to protect her, his grey maiden, his partner in darkness…


 The Maiden's Quest
Her Grey Prince diminished and her White Saviour revealed as beast, the Maiden at last understood the truth. Her life's companion would not appear, for they could not appear to a maiden sat idle. She must instead seek them out, must find her love, and free them of their solitude. And thus her own journey began, out into dangerous lands, shielded by her love awaiting, guided by her love to be. With every step, the maiden could feel it, their fated meeting, coming ever closer.





My saviour, so close…



White Wanderer...don't be shy....cold outside....bed is soft…



Heroic...Beautiful…



Grey Prince? Your words, are they... repeating?


Grey Prince? You seem... smaller? Were you always so tattered and stained...?






"...For diversity, a Seal..."
"...A world forever unchanging..."
"...the Seals, must break..."
"...Forever..."
"...Forever..."
"...Better, an end..."



"...For King beloved..."
"...To sleep. To serve..."
"...Bonds must remain..."
"...Remain..."
"...Remain..."
"...Remain..."


"...Bound... For brood... For child..."
"...Fair bargain made..."
"...Give all..."
"...For her..."
"...For her..."
"...For her..."




Would it seek to break the Seals?
They cannot be undone.
They must be undone.
Let us sleep little shadow.
Return to your darkness.
Allow us our peace.




Go no further, little shadow.
What compels its climb out of the darkness? What compels its return to this sacred kingdom?
A call from beyond the Seals?
By the Vessel, or by that captive light?
Would the Seals break?
They cannot be undone.
But the Vessel weakens.
That plague springs anew.
They must be undone.
Yet still our Seals remain.
Our duty holds.
It must be cast away.
Our duty holds. It shall be done.
Fade away, little shadow.
Fade away, and let us sleep in peace




In wilds beyond they speak your name with reverence and regret,
For none could tame our savage souls yet you the challenge met,
Under palest watch, you taught, we changed, base instincts were redeemed,
A world you gave to bug and beast as they had never dreamed.
- From 'Elegy for Hallownest' by Monomon the Teacher







Ahhhh.... Me'hon. This world. This cruel, sinful world. Why does che' wake? Why does che' persist? Ahhh Le'mer, you could not know of tragedy as complete as che's, true lovers stripped apart, two worlds that could not meet. And now meled'lover, dead so long in time. Dead, so far away. Buried, moina? Ai.
Amongst its hateful kin that did deny our union, that did reject che's... outside-ness. She doesn't suppose?... Nahlo, Nahlo. Could che' ask? Could che' burden? Le'mer, woulds't you, coulds't you deliver gift to her grave? The gift is, maybe small?
But the trek is long. She rests amongst her kind near our Queen's lush refuge. Would such a thing be done? Che' asks perhaps impossible things? Mad things? For Le'mer to take up such quest would be a kindness che' has near forgotten.



You turn away? Che' should've expected such. This world is not one of favours. Only of heart-ache.



Rare boon you grant Le'mer. It will be che's last request. After this, never shall che' lay burden on another. A sacred flower is the offering. It is a rare, delicate object. One of a kind. You must cherish it, must act as though it were your own heart. If you were to get hurt whilst carrying it, or did to attempt ride those jolting transit beasts, it would forever be destroyed.
Her grave lies in the middle of the Queen's overgrown estate. It is surrounded by her kind, who will not look kindly on your trespass. Take care Le'mer. My hopes I place upon you and my fervent wish that this small solace may come to pass.



Her grave lies in the middle of the Queen's old retreat, a far journey from here and the roads between are fraught with beasts. Safe tiding on your journey. My heart does flutter to feel such kindness from so tiny a creature.



Ulll Waaaaii! Che's sacred, precious, one of its kind flower. Ruined. Che's love, denied her final gift. Such suffering for che'. Such misery. Che' thought she could bear no more.
...I suppose, che' does have one more flower though. But Le'mer! This one is equally sacred and equally fragile. Where'st one to accept such quest, it must become mel'precious heart. Would such a thing be again be tried?



Me'hon? Does the heart beat a moment? Share pain of grief and hope to soothe it? Would you convey che's final gift unto her lover's grave?



Then this new, sacred, one of its kind flower che' shall give you. As che warned before, it doest become precious as one's heart whilst held.
If you were to get hurt again whilst carrying it, or did to attempt ride those jolting transit beasts, this one too shall be destroyed. Though my faith in one has been...challenged, my hopes are still with you Le'mer.


Her grave lies in the middle of the Queen's old retreat. It's a far journey from here and you've already learned how dangerous those paths can be. Be safe...And be more careful. Me'hon.



.....Wai. Destroyed. Again. Another rare and precious thing reduced to wilted stem. Che' does have spare...But Le'mer must know, a precious, sacred fragile flower it is. She did not want to part with it, but for meled'love, she would give all. Woulds't that quest again be taken?



Woulds't you perhaps attempt the journey to che's lover's grave again?



Mi'? Le'mer, you have done this thing? Is it possible? This world's cruelty, I'd thought it overwhelming, but le'mer, such great compassion. That Che's love would know her partner's heart even aeon past.
Is it that, Le'mer? Such grief, can end? Che' can end? Ullll, eh nai dear love. Che' too can end.



Le'mer, takes that heavy mantle...Che' wouldn't wish it upon one. Having served that brand at its great height, che' knows well what suffering it brings. Enough to turn nym'King to flee or fair Knights to mourning.



Ulll... Nemenoo... Nails and claws... Why must it be so?






What a terrible fate they've visited upon you. To cast you away into this space between body and soul. Will you accept their judgement and fade slowly away? Or will you take the weapon before you, and cut your way out of this sad, forgotten dream?


Though you may fall, your will shall carry you forward. A dream is endless, but a Kingdom is not. The power to wake this world from its slumber... you only need to reach out and take it.





Ahhhh, you've returned. Welcome back to the waking world.


Ahhhh, you've found your way back to me. When you awoke you just up and left. I thought perhaps I'd frightened you.



Those figures, those Dreamers... they reached out with what little power they still have and dragged you into that hidden place.
But that talisman you now wield, the Dream Nail... it can cut through the veil that separates the waking world from our dreams. Even the Dreamers themselves can not hide from such a weapon.
Though I must admit, that sacred blade has dulled over time. Together perhaps, we can restore its power. You only have to bring me Essence.
Essence... the precious fragments of light that dreams are made of. Collect it wherever you find it, and bring it to me. Once we have enough, we can work wonders together.
Go out into the world, Wielder. Hunt down the Essence that lingers there!
Collect 100 Essence and return to me. I will teach you more…


Ah, Wielder, you've returned. Let me have a look at the Dream Nail…


Essence can be found wherever dreams take root.
Have you seen them? Those whispering plants that grow all over this old Kingdom? I believe there is one just outside. Why not strike it with your Dream Nail, and see what happens?


Sometimes dreams take the shape of those who have passed away. Such dreams are bountiful sources of Essence!
You should search carefully near graves and other monuments. Why, I believe I saw an interesting gravestone here in the Resting Grounds.
If you do decide to disturb those dreams though, be prepared for a fight…


This kingdom is full of old memories, both beautiful and grotesque. Seek them out, reveal them, and gather Essence.


What are you doing, poking about in a dusty old mind like mine? Nothing of worth is hidden inside, believe me.
But keep probing the world around you with your Dream Nail... Hidden things will reveal themselves.





Collect 100 Essence and return to me. I will teach you more…



Hm. You are still unpracticed in the way of dreams. Collect 100 Essence with the Dream Nail; visit me again and I will share what little wisdom I have.


Hmm, already you've collected 100 Essence. Quick work! Things come naturally to you, don't they?
No wonder the Dreamers tried to bury you in that old dream. Perhaps you frighten them? Or perhaps, being prisoners themselves, they desired your company?
In any case, you still have a long way to go. Take this old trinket as encouragement from me, and return when you have collected 200 Essence.



Ahh... Your Dream Nail holds over 200 Essence. You're proving your talent in its collection.
Have you seen that great door just outside? My tribe closed it long ago and forbade its opening.
Ah, but as far as I can tell I'm the only member of my tribe still breathing. That means I needn't feel bad about breaking a taboo. As proof of my belief in you, I'll open the door.
There, the door is open and you can enter the glade beyond it. Listen closely in there and you may hear the utterings of bugs long gone.



You and the Dream Nail both seem a little sharper, but you still have a long way to go. Return to me once you have collected 300 Essence.
This kingdom is full of old memories, both beautiful and grotesque. Seek them out, reveal them, and gather Essence.



So you've collected 300 Essence... Yes, I can see the dreams of this old Kingdom are starting to cling to you. Very encouraging.
You've certainly made my dreary work here more exciting. Being the caretaker of this place hasn't been very stimulating.
I shouldn't complain though. Tending these graves and guiding the Wielder... all penitence for old crimes. Certain things have to be kept in balance.
Take this trinket for your efforts, and return with 500 Essence. Keep up your tireless work!



Ah, you have learned a lot about wielding the Dream Nail, haven't you? Return to me once you have collected 500 Essence and I will teach you more.



Ahhhhh. 500 Essence. You're a master in the making. Well done! Well done! I've a small reward for you.
Plucked from one of my most precious memories, this Charm will bring you and the Dream Nail closer together still. The secrets of this kingdom won't be able to hide from you any longer!
Take it, and return once you have collected 700 Essence. More gifts await you...



Ah, you have learnt a lot about wielding the Dream Nail, haven't you? Return to me once you have collected 700 Essence and I will teach you more.



So, you already have 700 Essence. I wonder whether the Dreamers are watching you as you work. Or even that old King.
That lock of theirs. Desperate, but very clever. I wonder how long they thought it could hold?
I hold no disdain for them though. As history goes on I grow numb to its repetitions.
Take your gift and continue collecting Essence. Once you have 900, come back and visit me.


My my, you're almost starting to become a dream yourself! Once you have collected 900 Essence I'll teach you a trick that I've kept hidden for a long time...



The Dream Nail now holds 900 Essence within its core! Are you surprised that this old kingdom has so many hidden dreams?
Yes, you're starting to see them. The connections between us and the dreams we leave behind, like prints in the dust. The time has come for you to learn how to revisit the places connected to you!
Hold the Dream Nail tight, wielder, and imagine a great gate opening before you!



Ahhh, the Dream Nail is glowing so brightly! Keep it up, return to me once you have collected 1200 Essence.



The Dream Nail glows bright... It holds over 1200 Essence. Looking into it I can see so many memories peering back at me. So many asking to be remembered.
None of us can live forever, and so we ask those who survive to remember us.
Hold something in your mind and it lives on with you, but forget it and you seal it away forever. That is the only death that matters.
Huh, so they say! Enough of that though. Take this relic and come back to me with 1500 Essence! Go!



Ahhh, the Dream Nail is glowing so brightly! Keep it up, return to me once you have collected 1500 Essence.



Yes, I thought so. More than 1500 Essence. The Dream Nail is close... so close to fully awakening!
Continue on your path, Wielder. I know not what guides you, nor what will it is that drives your forward. Once you have collected 1800 Essence though, I will be here waiting.
Take this gift, may it grant you strength and help you to collect the Essence of this world!



Incredible... the Dream Nail, it is so close to fully awakening! Collect more Essence! Once you have 1800 Essence, something truly marvellous will happen!



Yes. The time has come. The Dream Nail... And you as well, Wielder. It is time for you both to awaken.
The Essence you have collected...The hope that still remains in this old Kingdom. Pure potential! Let it course through you and into the Dream Nail.
Hold it aloft, Wielder! Awaken!
Ahhhh, ah ha, yes...
No dream can hide itself from you now. You can peer into the darkest places... You just need to find the right crack.
What will you do with such a power, Wielder? Whose memories will you hunt down?
Hah. Do as you wish, my promise is fulfilled. May the crimes of my tribe be washed away in time, like the rest of this Kingdom's...



The Dream Nail has fully awoken, yet still you collect Essence. Perhaps I've instilled an obsession in you?
Keep at it, then! I'm happy to wait and watch your progress.


Once you have collected 2400 Essence, return to me. I've no more gifts to give... but you'd prove yourself the Wielder my tribe awaited.
Upon returning with 2400 Essence
So much Essence... So bright.... You truly are the Wielder my tribe so long has dreamed of.
The folk of my tribe were born from a light. Light similar to Essence, similar to that powerful blade, though much brighter still.
They were content to bask in that light and honoured it... for a time.
But another light appeared in our world... A wyrm that took the form of a king.
How fickle my ancestors must have been. They forsook the light that spawned them. Turned their backs to it... Forgot it even.
And so this kingdom was born from that betrayal. But the memories of that ancient light still lingered, hush whispers of faith... Until all of Hallownest began to dream of that forgotten light.
Ah, but what's done is done. And so am I. The Wielder has at last appeared and I've held the memories of my tribe for long enough. It is time for us to be forgotten too.
Don't remember us, Wielder. Don't honour us. We do not deserve it...
Aahh... I'm sorry...
Light... Radiance...
I... remember you.






Ohrm... Tiny thing. You climb high. Seek then knowledge of these lands?
This ashen place is grave of Wyrm. Once told, it came to die. But what is death for that ancient being? More transformation methinks.
This failed kingdom is product of the being spawned from that event.



This falling ash is moult. The Wyrm's corpse decaying. Endless. Rmm... Serene. Sad.
With its like gone, the world is smaller.



Don't mistake. I am not a wyrm... Ohrm... Too small, I am. Too many limbs. No foresight like those old things.



For quiet retreat did I climb up here, away from spitting creatures. Ormmph... Yes. High up. Away from simple minds, lost to light.
Theirs is a different kind of unity. Rejection of the Wyrm's attempt at order.
I resist the light's allure. Union it may offer, but also a mind bereft of thought... To instinct alone a bug is reduced...Hrrm...



Is it you bothering about my tail? Rest is somewhat disturbed, but I find that sensation not unpleasant..Ohr..Ohr...Ohrmm.


Tiny thing... Oh hmm... The mark of Wyrm you bear. Is it change you seek? Or to save this ruin?
That choice is yours. Always the smallest creatures that attempts the largest things.



Ohhhmmmm... Tiny thing... It evolves beyond that Wyrm. Such union in a single being. A strength before unseen. Would it too challenge nature? It could perhaps defeat it.



Hmpph...Be on your way then? It's rest I'll return to, though in these times sleep oft proves uneasy.



One prefers its mind not be pried. Is rather unsettling. Rather invasive.






Greetings. You are very tired. Sit and rest.
We are friends. Welcome. Sit and rest.
Please sit and rest.
It is warm and safe. Sit and rest.
Welcome. You need rest. Sit and rest.





...For the honour of the King!..
...For the honour of the Five!..
...For the honour of Hallownest!




Oh, it's you again. I'm glad to see you return.
No, no, please... Don't say a word. I must apologise for my previous behaviour.
Entirely my fault. I mistook you for one of those mindless skulking husks, yet you bested me in the most majestic knightly fashion.
Such joyful, vigorous combat. I'd almost forgotten the feeling.
I was once a Knight you see. By the grace of our good King, I stood proudly before the throne, watching Hallownest swell to greatness.
Then that nasty business with the affliction...
We knights defend against the physical, but a formless enemy. How to defeat such a foe?
Our King tried in his own way. A cruel means it was... And still, eventually, we were brought low.
Bah! I shouldn't be so morose. You've invigorated me. 'Tis truly a delight to meet one whose strength can match my own.



Go now, mighty warrior of Hallownest! You've proven your honour! Good fortune on the path ahead.



Ahh, you exude the proud odour of the just. Truly, a mighty Knight you are.



Ahh! That tear... You've been to her grove!
I swore I'd visit, but... my duties... my oath...
Oh, I'm sorry. Ignore me, I'm being foolish. If I'm not careful I'll sink down into old memories and won't ever come back again. She's a great judge of character, so if she gave you her blessing you must be something special indeed. I'm barely worthy to be in your presence!



Ahh, you're awake, and looking well-rested! I was startled when I woke to find you curled up beside me, but of course you're welcome to rest here whenever the world wearies you. As the King granted his kingdom, to shelter to those who needed it, I offer my home. Stay as long as you like, down here where it's cosy and warm and moist.
My cave may seem a far cry from the finery of the palace but even still the memories of my former comrades, and our glorious King, remain fresh in my mind. The Pale Court was a wondrous place full of the age's greatest heroes. Ahh! Looking at you now, I can easily imagine you standing amongst them.



...So there were others…



...Isma... So strong.... Teach me…



Where will the line of Hallownest's Great Knights end? With me? Can such a thing be passed on?






My friends... I will protect our dear Kingdom. Have faith in me!
We will all meet again. I promise it...



My King... I believe in you. I believe in Hallownest! My devotion will never falter...



My King... Hallownest will be reborn! Glorious and bright! Just as it always was...



My King... We will all be together once more...



How funny that I see you in my dreams too, little one. Your noble bearing reminds me of our dear King. When he returns, I'll ask him if you can become a Knight! What jolly adventures we will have...



Hegemol... I miss your humour...
Ze'mer... I miss your stories...
Dryya... I miss your wisdom...
Isma... I miss.. I miss you...
Your Majesty... Have faith in me!







Ho there, traveller. I'm afraid there's only me left to offer welcome. Our town's fallen quiet you see.
The other residents, they've all disappeared. Headed down that well, one by one, into the caverns below.
Used to be there was a great kingdom beneath our town. It's long fell to ruin, yet it still draws folks into its depths.
Wealth, glory, enlightenment, that darkness seems to promise all things. I'm sure you too seek your dreams down there.
Well watch out. It's a sickly air that fills the place. Creatures turn mad and travellers are robbed of their memories.
Perhaps dreams aren't such great things after all…


Oh! You came back! You walked straight past me, I thought maybe I'd faded away along with this town.

Oh! You're back! You walked straight past me and descended down into the ruins without even saying hello! I thought maybe I'd seen a ghost.
The mind sometimes plays tricks on you when you spend a lot of time alone.


Many used to come, hoping the kingdom would fulfill their desires. Hallownest, it was once called. Supposedly the greatest kingdom there ever was, full of treasures and secrets.
Hm. Now it's nothing more than a poisonous tomb full of monsters and madness.
Everything fades eventually, I suppose.



Feeling tired? That bench may be iron, but I assure you it's quite comfortable. There's no better place to collect your thoughts before heading below.
Plus I enjoy the company. Not that you seem the talkative sort.


I hope you aren't too disappointed by our little town, traveller. Though it's now a solemn place, once we were much more welcoming.
Entry to the kingdom was forbidden long ago, supposedly after some great calamity. Many gates were closed, but our old well remains as a way to creep back in.
Over the years, all kinds used the well to wriggle into the ruins, wanderers, thieves, adventurers.
Funny how few ever come back up. Perhaps they find what they're looking for? ...
Bah, I'm not so naive. No doubt, they've all been gobbled up! There are countless dangers in those depths.



A young couple's just recently taken up residence in the house beside the station. Seems they're running a map shop, which may excite adventurous types like yourself.
She's a tall bug, the wife. I told them to take a larger house, especially given they're all empty, but they liked the look of that one.
The way she has to bend just to get through the door...I wouldn't put up with it myself.



Oh, what a turn! Our shopkeep's come home. Just wandered back in. I'd hoped for grand tales of his time below, but he seems to remember almost nothing! Maybe it was all too much for him?
If you're interested in his wares, watch out! He drives a hard bargain, that one.
No competition. That's the problem. It's bad for the market. Not that he's complaining.


I never thought I'd see such a thing. The Stag Station has opened! That building lay silent since before even my time.
Oh, I've heard the tales of the glorious lines. A web of tunnels running all through the kingdom. Not that I'll be travelling them, mind you! I'm quite content where I am.



Faring well in your adventures below? Well I had an adventure of my own while you were gone.
I don't usually visit the town's graveyard, but I thought I'd go and visit the grave of an old friend.
As I was walking amongst the tombstones, I noticed a strange kind of chanting coming from somewhere nearby. Extremely sinister chanting!
I looked around to find the source, and I saw two bright, horrible, huge eyes staring at me from the door of a dark cave!
I pretended I hadn't heard the voice or seen the eyes and scurried back to town. My friend will have to wait a little longer for her visit...


That lovely young lass returned to us! I must admit, I'd placed thin odds on her survival.
Seems to think very highly of her rescuer, some sort of dashing, warrior type. Barely stopped gushing since she got back.
The warrior must have passed down below whilst I was taking my nap. Such a shame. I'd have loved to meet so impressive a bug.



Can you... smell something? There's suddenly a horrid stench in the air.
I swear, the town usually smells much nicer than this. Please accept my humble apology!



To descend into that ruin... Why? Things are so much simpler up here.





I used to think the kingdom below was all dead cold rock, but I've since been told different. Travellers speak of startling variety in Hallownest's caverns. Even just besides those Crossroads there's meant to be an area full with leafy greenery.
I told those same travellers about the wonderful grasses that grow around the town. They didn't seem impressed.


My understanding of Hallownest can be a little vague, but below those leafy caverns is a fungal grove, once home to peaceful creatures not quite bug and not quite plant.
Sounds almost worth a visit no? Well there's a downside, the dreadful stench! A noxious odour fills the place.


Hallownest's great capital is what most of you brave types come to see. Thinking to loot its treasures I suppose? It must be brimming with them.
The city's right at the centre of the kingdom, though I've heard the gates are sealed, so gaining entry can be difficult.
It'd be a rich bug that could return with even a fraction of the wealth inside. Despite my age, I've only seen few who've managed it. Must say something of the dangers about its streets.


Did you see that tall cliff beyond the town's graveyard? That's only the base of a much larger peak.
There's mines and machinery and all sorts of valuable rock forms inside. Many a traveller through Dirtmouth headed straight for it.


That noisy old lift, where does it go? Up to the old mines they carved into the peak I suppose.
Have you been up there? Is it true that crystals grow everywhere you step?
A villager brought some of those crystals back to the village once. I don't quite understand the allure myself.
You can't eat them, and they don't make for good pillows. They hardly seem worth all the trouble to me.


Did you know the caverns continue even below the capital? Few have ventured that deep so the details are scant.
Those who made it back told of impossibly old structures and roads formed as though the rock itself possessed a will.


Apparently, the many graves of Hallownest are enough to fill an entire network of caverns. Somewhere above the city it's told. Sounds a gloomy sight.
Bah, I'm content with our own humble plot. In our boom times, we even had a gravedigger! Not a bad sort he was, though dead now.
He, didn't die to the dangers of Hallownest mind you. That one fell into an open grave and couldn't climb out.
I found the corpse myself. Dreadful nuisance. I've since had to tend the graves myself.


To reach Dirtmouth, most travellers take circuitous routes around the cliffs beside us. It's a hard trek now but in the kingdom's prime things were far simpler.
There's an old pass in the cliffs that once allowed easy access. The bridge up to it has long since crumbled away, and even without it, a huge door bars entry.
I can't complain mind you. It's meant we've only ever had to accommodate a trickle of travellers, even during our busiest times.
I wouldn't want hordes of bugs to descend on Dirtmouth. I like the quiet.


Ehhh...A sharp sickly smell has started to drift from the well beside town. I'd thought those depths ominous before, now they seem just dreadful.
Whatever horrid curse afflicts this ruin, I'd wager it's grown stronger than ever.


Did you visit that temple? A strange building I've heard, though I'd never dare the journey myself.
The braver among us once went there to pray, said they felt at peace within the walls. After a while, they stopped going. I wonder what changed?


I heard a piercing cry from the well. It echoed about my mind and left me all a daze.
I'd say it was a foul beast's death, but this cry sounded different...divine? Has something happened little traveller?
No. Don't tell me. If foul events are brewing, it's probably better I don't know.




Hm? What's that you have there? Ah! What a beautiful flower! I'd never have guessed by looking, but you have surprisingly good taste in flora. Why are you carrying around such an exquisite bloom?
Wait... you didn't...? Ahh!
This flower is... is it a gift? For me? Are you really giving me something so precious?


Oh. My mistake. Yes. Very foolish of me. I don't know why I thought you'd go to so much effort for a simple old bug.
Appreciating others and being considerate... these aren't skills that everyone is born with.


You're still holding onto that exquisite bloom... have you changed your mind? Are you really giving me something so precious?


Ah! I can really have it? My, my... I barely know what to say except... thank you!
I'd resigned myself to selflessly giving out advice to passers by, without receiving any gratitude in return. Little did I know, one young bug was taking my words to heart and would repay my kindness.
And with such a beautiful gift! Ahh. Suddenly, the world seems a little less faded.
Thank you, my friend. I will take care of this flower while you're gone, so we can enjoy it together when you return.


This flower you gave me... when dark thoughts creep into my head I gaze at it and think of you.
Why not rest at the bench here for a while? We can enjoy the flower together before you head off again.


These petals... so white. Can you see them too... watching me from wherever you are?
Perhaps dreams aren't such bad things after all…




Ahh! Look there! Something strange and sinister has suddenly appeared!
Ugh, it fills me with dread. I think it best I try to ignore it.


Why must these grotesque strangers intrude on our peaceful little home? Sometimes it feels like the whole world is conspiring to make me uncomfortable.


Ah ha! Good riddance! That creepy carnival has vanished and town's returned to its former self, nice and quiet as I like it.
And we've gained a new addition to the square! I found the fellow just outside of town. Seemed a little confused at first. Claims to be from far away, though he's hazy on the details.
Whatever his past, he's a rather good musician, and this town's spent far too long listening only to the wind. Thanks to him, we've gained a new tune and some new company!


That young lass! Why, she's up and departed over the cliffs, without even a farewell.
It's a perilous journey she's set herself upon. I can't understand where she gained such fortitude.
I'd thought herself a timid sort, one after my own mind. How wrong I was. The call of adventure lures all but me!





 
Ah, what a surprise! It's not often I receive visitors. It's been so long. Ages even. I just hope my manners haven't left me. You've no doubt sensed my affluence. You're right to guess, I'm renowned amongst the upper caste of Hallownest.
...Well I was... once, until those cretins cast me out. Have you met them, my former fellows? That's them outside, their bodies shambling around all mindless and empty. And I'm still alive to witness their pathetic demise.
Ahhh, I'm just so happy. Fate can be a wonderful thing.


Isn't life just wonderful…


In times past I wouldn't have spoken with your likes, but now the rest of my caste are wonderfully, distantly deceased.
If I didn't welcome you I'd never have anyone to share my happiness with.


Oh... hmm... Could it be? You've returned at last? No. No...  Oh pardon me! For just a moment, I mistook a certain quality about you. You seemed almost... regal.
Silly, I know. It's clear you're not of high birth, wandering about all dirty and tattered like that.


No doubt this one will meet its demise at the nails of the city's guards. I'll outlive you too little grub, as I did all the others.




What a curious specimen. Hah! Though even its pure aura is no match for the light of our dear King.
Keep your faint flora, bug. I've enough of my own to tend and surely you'd agree that mine are far finer.



Is it mask or face upon the creature? In Hallownest, a difficult thing it can be to decipher.


A wonderful thing to have, a face. Not a thing with which we all are blessed.
For this kingdom's faceless, I shall provide.
A mask! A face! Does it need one? Does it not? To define. To focus. To exist.


It sees the face beneath! Or could it be just another mask?
Truth in Hallownest is always buried deep. How many layers will it pry through?
To change a face; to conceal it fully within another... A powerful protection that is, but one with sad consequence.
The original mind is destroyed, though those of striking will may still retain a sliver of that concealed self.


I see another takes mantle of king? Then grim responsibility that shall bestow.
No bug has ever laid claim to this whole. Even the beasts knew their limits and bound their realm at Nest's edge.
It is the ancient caste that made attempt at such vast rule. Hallownest's ruin reflects well those fared attempts.


Has it witnessed that truth most tragic? The Wyrm's great shame sealed away.
Now this Kingdom's stasis becomes the Wyrm's legacy.
Talking again after unmasking
Faces I grant to all who'd request. Not task for I, but aid, gift to a world deserving.


...Does it know of the face that hides beneath? Such remarkable contrast the Wyrm conceived....





Oh. Please. Please. Don't be shy. There are some nasties about here alright. Not me. I'm friend to all and happy to serve a traveller so bold as you. Is it information you seek? That I can provide. Yes. Oh yes. Heehee.
That village above here, home to a sad creature. Hers is a tale of tragic exchange. Cost her and her people greatly, though I suspect she bore no regret in making it. Heehee, yes. I know. I know. You're intrigued. You want to know the tale. Well I'm sorry. I'd love to tell it, but I'm just, I'm very, very sorry, and I haven't eat in some time...
And oh, I'm STAA-AARVING…


Ahh! It returns. I do apologise about before. Heehee. No matter. No matter. My appetite oft gets the better of me. For now at least, I'm content.
Would you hear about myself? There's not much to say. I'm a servant to the nest, though few in recent times would seek my service. Our brood is lost to that pestilence of the mind. A sad fall for the most intelligent species.
Ah, but hmmm. I've eaten yes, and full. Then again, another little morsel would make me oh so happy. The perfect end to a meal…


My dear. Aren't you so kind, checking again on my well-being. I'm ever the caring host. I can't understand why more don't visit in your manner.
Now you won't mind while I take just a little bite... Just a leg perhaps? A full belly is the best path to happiness…


My good friend. You wear that bright mark of relationship. Then you've met her perhaps? Her who'd guard the mark, the Gendered Child. A spritely thing, isn't she?
Pale gift to the Nest and the Beast, fair trade for sacrifice made. Long she's been distant. It'd do our spirits well were she to grace us a visit home...
...He hee. Oh. Hmm. I am sorry. Old memories cause my mind to wander on such silly diversions, especially when I'm oh so famished…


Ohhhh.. Heehee. Been prying about the weavers' home, have you my dear? Quite brazen to pilfer that special charm. Amazing things the weavers once crafted on their looms; stories, shields, spells. So much of our history was spun upon their spools. Your little friends there are testament to their talents... heehee.
Oh! I do apologise. I've just felt a rumbling down below, in my belly. Just wait right there a moment. Don't you move now...
Dream Nailed
Gah!! Get out! Get out! Get out!


Just because you're suddenly rich with threaded friends, don't think you're welcome in my mind! Out! Out! Out!





Oooohhh radiant being, we are blessed. Your rays touch us. Your warmth fills us. Hallownest is born again, united in your blazing image. Oohhh...
Light is life, beaming, pure, brilliant. To stifle that light is to suppress nature. Nature suppressed distorts, plagues us. Embrace light! Achieve union! Oohh..Ahhh.


... Blinding... Rising... Never be empty…


...Blazing...Bright...





Ohhh, bury my mother, pale and slight,
bury my father with his eyes shut tight!
Bury my sisters, two by two,
and then when you're done, let's bury me toooo!
Ha ha ha, do you know that one? It's one of my f-favourites! We can sing something else if you like. You start singing and I'll join in. I bet you have a b-b-beautiful singing voice! Ha ha ha!
So, what are you down here for? If you came to g-get wealthy, just look around you! These mines are still bursting with riches! There's p-p-plenty for everyone, just grab a pick and join in! Ha ha!


Ohhh, bury the knight with her broken nail,
bury the... p-priest... something about a crown...?
I c-can't remember the rest of that one, ha ha ha! Maybe I'll just hum it.


Oh, hello again! Are you still running about? Why not join me d-down here? There's plenty of wealth in these rocks for anyone willing to put a bit of work in!
Those crystals out there are worth a fair b-b-bit, but I have a feeling that there's something even more valuable hidden just a bit deeper in! I can almost smell it! Ha ha ha!
You're welcome to join me, there's enough for both of us! Or if you don't feel like d-d-d-digging, you can just sit and sing with me! Ha ha ha!
Ohh, bury the knight with her broken nail,
bury the lady, lovely and pale!
Bury the priest in his tattered gown,
then bury the beggar with his shining croooown!
Ha ha ha! Are you suh... surprised? I remembered the second verse! Lots of time to think while I work down here. Maybe I can even c-come up with some songs of my own!
This is hard work, but I don't mind. Down here, I can k-keep working without even sleeping. It's fun!
And every once in awhile you c-c-come to visit me! I'm glad... ha ha... I'm glad you like the sound of my voice!


I'm so close... Keep singing, crystals! Keep singing so I can find you!
Keep whispering, crystals! I can almost hear what you're saying!


...Bury my body... c-cover my shell,
What meaning in darkness? Yet here I remain...
I'll wait here forever...till light blooms again...
...Bury... body... cover... shell,
Darkness. No meaning... DANGEROUS... Still, remain...
LIGHT.... Again…


... how much longer... KILL IT... how much longer... DANGEROUS... how much longer... KILL IT... how much longer... KILL THE EMPTY ONE...
...how much longer... must I dig...?


...Bury my mother...Pale and slight...
Bury...My sisters...Two by two...
...Bury...Bury the priest in his...





Oho! Who is that creeping out of the darkness? My, you're looking grim! A strange, empty face and a wicked looking weapon!
Something important has drawn you down into Hallownest's corpse, but I won't ask what. Perhaps the reason you've found me is because you need my help?
Say no more, friend. I'm going to give you a gift, a nasty little spell of my own creation. It's just perfect for a little one like you! Ohoho!


Don't be afraid. Have faith! That spell belongs to you now, all you need to do is take it!
Ohohoho, you won't be going much further without it, I promise you!


Oho, you've come back! Didn't you like the look of my gift? You left without saying a word!
Perhaps you're braver than you think! Go ahead and take what belongs to you!


Oho? You've woken at last! I apologise, perhaps I should have warned you about the power of that spell. I was watching over you as you slept, but seem to have slipped away myself! Ohohoho!
Now we're awake, I was wondering whether you would do me a small favour. Not as repayment for my gift of course, simply because we're now friends.
You see, a horrid great beast has made its home in the heart of this temple. Such disrespect! I would be quite grateful if you were to venture deeper in and slay it for me.
It's a hardy creature, but with your new power you're more than a match for it! Good luck with this small favour, my friend! Ohohohohohoho!


What is it? Are you wondering about this gate between us? Ohoho! It's a curious thing, but this door will not open until you have slain that creature lying in the heart of the temple.
Don't worry about it. I'm sure the spirits of my ancestors will be watching over you.


Oho! So it's done then, you've slain the beast!
The poor thing! It must have been terrified of you. It used to be quite docile, but the rancid air in these caverns filled it with some ancient rage.
Still, you did what had to be done! You have my gratitude! Of course, we both know you wouldn't have made it through without that spell of mine... Ohoho!


Oho! There you are! I was watching over you while you slept, and must have slipped away myself. I woke up and found you'd disappeared! You are a surprising one, ohoho!
Actually, I wanted to ask a small favour of you. You see, there is a certain creature lurking just above us, in the heart of this temple...
...Oho? Well, yet another surprise! You've slain that creature before I've even asked!
I scarcely deserve such a friend as you! You're a marvel! Ohohoho!


And look! The gate between us has opened. Ohoho!
I'm sure you're eager to move on. Farewell, and have faith! Whatever you are seeking... it will find you! Ohohoho!


Why do you hesitate? You'll get nothing more from me, I'm afraid.
Though I do admire your persistence! Ohohohoho!


Oho! What brings you back through here, little shadow? Are you lost?
Don't worry about me. I don't need anything more from you. Ohohoho!


Poking around in the dreams of others... You're more curious than you look! Oho ho ho ho!




What's this? My vengeful gift has warped within you. You've twisted it into something... else.
Ohohohoh! I knew it. My friend! You're a marvel. Your essence has melded with the spell.
You must have found a powerful source to transform it in such a unique, expressive way.


Ah ho! I'm sensing new power about you, one that'll crack the rock beneath us. A useful thing for one looking to travel ever deeper.
My third uncle used to possess similar abilities. He also possessed a ferocious temper! Ohohoho! What a dreadful combination.


My friend. My friend. There's another quality about you yet. You didn't perchance visit my fourth aunt?
She makes her home beside that Crystal Mount. Leaves quite an impression on those that seek her out. Were I not bound here, I'd love to visit myself.


Pried a spell out of my larger cousin did you? Aren't you the charming one.
She's not usually the generous sort, certainly not as much as myself, but she does have that wonderful voice! It's no surprise her spells carry such aural force.


That scream? Ooohh, distorted in such a way... it's not within the skills of us snails to do such a thing.
Wherever you draw this new power from, it's not a place my kind ever thought to look.





Tiny squib... You approach fearless. Are you a hunter like me? Do you feel the urge inside, to stalk, to kill, to understand? Then take it! My journal. It will aid you. At first the text may seem difficult to discern, but a learned hunter will come to understand its words. Venture the depths of this land and slay its beasts. Prove yourself worthy to bear the mark of Hunter.


Little squib! You may have overcome a few creatures, but you are only just beginning. Don't delay, descend into the belly of this world and hunt down the life you find!


Ahhh... I knew I'd seen it right. That hunter's quality. Hallownest's creatures fall in your path. Don't stop now little squib, many more there are to find, and stalk, and kill.


Ah ha! Your journal grows fat and full. Only those last few, rare beasts remain left to stalk. Search the kingdom's corners. Complete the journal. Earn your well deserved reward…


So, you've encountered all of the beasts in this land. Impressive! But one task remains, little squib. Keep hunting down creatures until you have deciphered all of my notes! Only then will I recognise you as my fellow Hunter and you shall receive your reward.


Your journal... let me see it! Yes... Yes! The Hunter's journal is complete! You have proven yourself a true hunter, a master of killing, and so with great pleasure I will give you the reward you deserve...


You have my mark, and you shall be recognised as one of my rare caste. Fellow Hunter, I have nothing else to give you.


Fellow Hunter. You return? You've already proven yourself to me. I'm only biding time a moment, before next my hunt begins. A true Hunter has no home, no kingdom and I'm eager for new prey. You bear the mark now, but that's only the beginning. That mark will become a part of you, will engrave itself deep within, and that yearning to hunt... It will never leave.


It is stronger even than me... does it know that? Will it return to hunt me...? I hope it tries.





...Soul of Wyrm. Soul of Root. Heart of Void…


No cost too great.
No mind to think.
No will to break.
No voice to cry suffering.
Born of God and Void.
You shall seal the blinding light that plagues their dreams.
You are the Vessel.
You are the Hollow Knight.


...No cost too great...
...





You who pry into even the most hidden of dreams... Take heed. Recorded within this shrine are utterings from another world. Though the words may seem strange, remember they come from minds different to ours, the minds of a group united in mysterious cause. To believe or disbelieve... The choice is yours.


To believe or disbelieve... The choice is yours.
After destroying all the tablets within the Shrine of Believers
Such destruction... Is this your way of honouring those who believe? Their riddles and ramblings may seem to us meaningless, or undecipherable, or grotesque... But if they did not believe... what would become of you and I?


When many voices gather, great or terrible things are sure to come...





Oh! One arrives. Far it walks to find me. Did it seek my aid? Or did the path carry it by chance to so pertinant a place?
It is true. True, that you were awaited. No. Perhaps that is inaccurate. True one like you was awaited.
I have a gift, held long for one of your kind. Half of a whole. When united, great power is granted, and on the path ahead, great power it will need.


Within my roots, the weakening of the Vessel I plainly feel. Only two obvious outcomes there are from such a thing.
The first is inevitable on current course, regression, all minds relinquished to that pernicious plague.
The second I find preferable, and would seek your aid in its occurrence, replacement.
I implore you, usurp the Vessel. Its supposed strength was ill-judged. It was tarnished by an idea instilled. But you. You are free of such blemishes. You could contain that thing inside.
I'll offer fair warning. The Vessel may itself be weak, but it is much empowered by that force within.
To claim its role requires strength of some magnitude. Prepare yourself well before attempting the task.


Prepare well, but don't dally. Were the Vessel to break prematurely, that plague would unleash with rage and power built of ages chained.


Do I seem prisoner here? If so, it's not by any choice but my own. These bindings about me, I've chosen to erect.
There is some shame I feel from my own part in the deed, and this method guarantees it cease.
I still feel that urge you see. I always will. A voracious desire to spread seeds upon the land, to propogate myself, to breed.


It faced the Gendered Child? She's a fierce foe, strong in mind and body, striking reflection of her mother, though the two were permitted little time together.
I never begrudged the Wyrm's dalliance as bargain. In fact, I feel some affection for the creature birthed.
If your paths were ever to align, I imagine you might gain yourself a powerful ally.


Ahh! So it bears our once-fractured soul, now complete. Such strength, such resolve, such dedication! Is it more than simply a Vessel? I almost feel like I'm once again in the presence of my beloved Wyrm.
The Kingsoul... What is at the heart of it I wonder? If its curiosity wills it, it should seek out that place. That place where it was born, where it died, where it began…


That pulsing emptiness... Truly, it has been transformed by the revelations it found.
Does it... feel anything? Triumph? Or hate? If it does, I cannot sense it.
The fate of our Kingdom, our Hallownest... that future belongs to you now.


...That scent. Does another travel with you? Is that you Ogrim, my mighty Knight?
I cannot see you, but then time has clouded my eyes and I cannot see much. Even your booming voice falls silent upon me.
Only this small one I register, if maybe because it shares some piece of myself. This one stands clear upon a misted world.
Ah.... But my my, that potent smell does recall such joyous memory. Only a short moment we had together, compared to ruin now endured, but what shining times they were.
I am grateful you would visit, even if to see me in somewhat faded form.
Dear Ogrim, I'm sure you saw Dryya on the way in? She's stood guard over me for so long.
Despite her hard front, she's always been a caring type. I'm sure she'll much enjoy a Knights' reunion.


 
So it can access a mind? Then the seals shall break before its blade.




Ahh, that creature beside. It would be naive to claim it friend, though you two share a... similarity? It is a distant link, one words would strain to convey.
For it to cling to you now... You've been consumed in the ritual of that scarlet clan.
In what poor moment they descend upon our ruin. Aid their propagation, if you so choose, but do not renege on the larger task this kingdom implores.


Your companion's eyes burn with a familiar flame... Success then for the scarlet heart, and irony, to use my spawn to grow its own.
I know you creature, and the form time shall bring. You may be all and one, clan and master, but this land shall never bear so foreign a king.




Ah, what precious gift it offers, though alas I shan't accept.
Not of me that flower, nor of this kingdom. Far it travelled to reach this place, brought by one beloved, fair knight of lands serene.
There is rare power hidden in those frail petals.
To hold it so close, one must surely be unaware of its nature...





Oh! Come in search of treats have you? I chanced upon a unique little fungus growing right above us. I've found it only in this station and the taste is just divine.


This place must once have been quite the hub, built at the border between two lands, that misty drop to one side and those bulbous growths another.
Neither place seems particularly welcoming so while my little treats last, I think I'll stay right here.


Feel free to stop by anytime. Though I do like the quiet in this station, a little company is always good for one's health.
Mmmmmm, just splendid.
Talking to her from above
Mmmf, delicious.


This little creature looks tasty. I wonder, should I eat it? The others around here were awfully bland.





Stop there! Those who try to leave this kingdom are cursed. Better to rest here, until time itself sleeps.
Hope, and freedom... I thought that strength alone could grant me these things. In my dreams, I would cut that plague with my nails, and then I turned my weapons upon the King.
When I awoke in this sacred place, I began to understand. Those who hope...are already doomed.
Do you still hope, wanderer? Will you flee? Or will you raise your weapon and doom us both?


Ah... I can see now. Those who turn against the King are doomed as soon as they raise their weapon.
Do not call me a traitor... Simply call me a fool.
I know you will not flee. Wherever you go... I will be watching.


Cursed are those who turn against the King.





I am Gorb!
Bow! Bow bow bow bow to Gorb!
The great mind! I am Gorb!
Ascend! Ascend! Ascend ascend ascend with Gorb!


I... am Gorb!
The great mind... the pain! Ascend! Ascend!
I... I am...


Here lies Gorb, the Great Mind.





Wait, child! Why have you come here? Have you come to tame this savage, ruined land?
Many have come to purify this place, but all who dwell here are eventually consumed.
Yes, even the wild bugs lurking below us. They were once proud like you, but now they are only monsters.
Beware dreams of glory, child. Turn back, and do not return.


My mind... it clears... Have we been... sleeping, child?
Ahh... I remember. Those proud lords... were they truly monsters? I remember their eyes now... bright and clear. Why then did I fear them so?
If there was madness in that village, it was I who brought it. They were right to cast me out.
When I attacked, they were right to...
They were right to kill...
To kill... me...?
...aah.


We remember the Elder.





Oh! The Queen! The Queen is coming! I've been waiting so long, and now she's almost here! I feel like I'm about to burst!
I've kept it safe, this sacred garden! I've kept it safe for all this time, and soon the Queen will return and teach me to fly!
Shall we wait together, stranger? Shall we play together?


Oh, stranger... you're strong. Much stronger than me...
I've been waiting a long time, stranger. I've been fighting a long time, stranger.
I'm very, very tired! The Queen will be here soon, and I just need to sleep a little.
Wake me when the Queen arrives, stranger. Perhaps the Queen will teach us both to fly, stranger!
That... would be fun... wouldn't it...?


Protector of root and leaf, we honour you.





My child... can you still see? Please, don't hurt me!
Can't sleep... with your eyes open, little one. Can't dream... if you're still breathing, little one.
Precious children... you speak such loathsome things as you sleep... your claws scratch and scrape...
Precious children, a monster has come for us in the dark...Will you sing for me?


One by one... their eyes closed at last. I felt it... a warm stillness falling over us.
I'm sorry I was frightened of you. You were always protecting us, even when we couldn't see you.
Take us there, please. A place where light can not haunt us, a place without dreams...Please...


A face carved from stone.





Hoh, a fellow warrior, out here? I thought I was the only one brave enough and strong enough to survive in this foul, forgotten pit.
I am Galien, the strongest warrior in Hallownest! I came to this monstrous place to test my strength. No doubt you wish to test your might as well, hmm?
Yes, you and I are a rare breed, quite unlike this poor fellow who has fallen before us. The world is not kind to the weak, I fear.
So then... shall we do battle? Let us test our strength in joyful combat!


Unbelievable... I am defeated at last! So this is what it feels like to be bested...
Still though, I am strong, am I not? When you see our King, surely you'll tell him of my valour...?
Yes... he sent you here to test me, didn't he? I knew he had not forgotten brave Galien.
I am ready... to join you now. Brothers, you and I. Let us leave this place...
...together...


The body of a fallen warrior.





You have come a long way, just to die here at the edge of the world.
No, do not speak. I have heard thousands and thousands of empty words from those like you. Your pride, your desires, your desperation... you will take these things with you once I strike you down.
Raise your weapon then, and die like those who came before you.


Never... have I been defeated in combat.
I can... see myself there, still sleeping. How long have I been hidden here?
Here at the edge of the world, no-one could find me... except you.
Warriors, knights, kings, even time itself... they have no power over me. Only you.
You are the darkness... come to consume me.


The body of a warrior, with a shield and nails.





So, it was you who called us.
Well met, my friend. Well met. I am Grimm, master of this troupe. The lantern has been lit, and your summons heeded. A fine stage you choose, this kingdom fallowed by worm and root, perfect earth upon which our Ritual shall take place. And you, my friend. Your own part is far from over.
As the lantern flared your role was cast, our compact written in scarlet fire. Eager we are to see you commence, but first, some illumination is required.
Across these lands my kin now spread, harvesting that essence peculiar to my... breed, the flame in dream. Seek my kin; claim their flame and return it to me. Together, marvels shall be achieved. But don't fret small one. For this task you won't travel alone. My child shall guide you to the flame and gather within itself that burning essence. Like you, the child plays key role in this task. Only with it by your side will the flame, and my kin, reveal themselves to you.


I can feel it. The warmth of the flame you've gathered together.
A masterful opening act. The air hums with excitement. Dear child, you've done so well. Let your fire burn even brighter!
Beautiful, yes. The child has grown, from idle youth to deadly companion. About these dangerous lands, its aid will no doubt be welcome. Just don't neglect our dance, for it too continues! Keep hunting that scattered, scarlet essence. When the child is filled with flame once more, return to the stage and the performance will begin.


Wonderful. Wonderful! My kin arrive and the time has come.
This searing fire... It carries well the Ritual's promise.
Dance with me, my friend. The crowd awaits. Show them you are worthy of a starring role!


Bravo, my friend. Hear how the crowd adores you! They've not seen such a show in a long time.
Look here! How our child has grown, nourished and strengthened by the heat of our passionate dance! The two of you will feature in many tragedies and triumphs together, I'm sure.
And so our great Ritual nears it end. Will you continue to harvest the flame, even though now you surely see the path it illuminates for us? Our scarlet eyes will watch you keenly... friend.
Go out into the darkness. Harvest the last lingering embers of this Kingdom. Then return to me and we will complete our dance.


The Flame...
The Ritual...
The Troupe…


Masterful! Even a vessel discarded bears fierce strength. Fine craft dear Wyrm, and perfect tool to prolong the heart of Grimm.


...The child…


How grand a stage!
A charming ritual... a pleasure!
An honour, Seeker, to attend your call!







Mrmm. You called us? Speak to Master.


...Mrmm. Speak to Master.


The flame. Seek it out. For Master. For our kin. Mrmm.


...Mrmm. Very good. The child burns with flame. Master... is waiting for you. Mrmm.


You wish to see the Master? Return with the child full of flame and he shall appear.


When flame burns bright inside one's mind Kin heed the call 'cross lands and time.




Mrmm. You came. The red flame I've gathered from this dead Kingdom. You would claim it... for our Master. For his final act. The Ritual plays itself out once more. We are like the notes in an old, old song. You and me. Mrmm.
Endless, repeating songs of sacrifice, of servitude. For the Ritual. For the troupe. For the Master. Even this child was born into invisible chains. Mrmm. So we serve... Thus it has ever been. Yes? Take the flame then, it is why you came here.


It is done... and yet... It is not merely by fortune that we meet here, in the darkest, furthest reaches of the world, where the Master's scarlet eyes can not see us. Mrmm. A song that never ends... is no song at all. You take part in the Ritual, yet I sense you truly have no Master. Is it so? Perhaps together we can banish that livid flame and let this dead Kingdom rest in peace. If you wish to silence the endless song... Mrmm, meet me where it began... But if you return to the Master and complete the Ritual... Mrmm. As long as you do it without regret, I will bear you no hatred.


If you wish to silence this endless song, meet me where it began... But if you wish to continue the Ritual... Mrmm. As long as you do it without regret, I will bear you no hatred.


Mrmm. You came.You have gathered the flame and so the time for the ritual's completion is upon us. All you must do now is return to the Master...
Thus it goes, as it ever has. We are like the notes in an old, old song. You and me. Mrmm.
And yet... It is not merely by fortune that we meet here, in the darkest, furthest reaches of the world, where my Master's scarlet eyes can not see us. Mrmm. A song that never ends... is no song at all. You take part in the Ritual, yet I sense you truly have no Master. Is it so? Perhaps together we can banish that livid flame and let this dead Kingdom rest in peace. If you wish to silence the endless song... Mrmm, meet me where it began...


Yes. We are merely vessels for the flame. But... were we always empty?






So you followed me here, to where the ritual began. You would join me in breaking it then?
It is painful to defy the Master, but our harvest... it profanes this dark, quiet Kingdom. This once, I would see the ritual fail.
Mrmm.. Now! Let us destroy the anchor, and banish the Master. Never shall he return here again!


Master... are even you a slave? If so, let our chains be broken together!







Aaaaaaaaahhhhhhhh!
Did you call us? You called us, and we came. We came!
You don't look scared. Why did you call us? Ahhh. It doesn't matter. Don't tell me. We came, and I can smell something. Something deep below us. I want it... I want it!


Ahhh, that smell! So strong, so virile, but not the odour that calls to me.
I crave a different smell. Precious. Sensitive... Fragile. Ahh! Bring it. Wear it!
Having any Fragile Charm in inventory but none equipped
That smell! Eeuuarrggh! You're hiding something very nice from me, aren't you? Shouldn't hide something so nice!
Show me... show me! Put it on! Quickly!


Aaaaaaaaahhhhhhhh!
That charm... beautiful! Most precious thing! Little lovely, will you let me see it? Have to show it to me!


Eeuuarrggh! Why?!
Little lovely, don't do nasty things. Don't be cruel. Show it to me! That beautiful thing was made for me... I can smell it!


Ahhhhhhhhhh! Ahhhh!
Such a little beauty! Such a smell... such a smell!
Ahhh! So good! So tasty! A perfect, perfect thing, just for me! Ahhhhhh!


Beautiful, delicious... Ahhhhhh!
You're good, little lovely. You're very sweet, to bring me such a gift!
The one who made my gift... Aahhh, somewhere below? Yes?
Very good gift. Very tasty! Delicious!
Do you want something, little lovely? You don't want to take my gift back, do you?
Eeuuarrggh! So nasty, so cruel, if that's true! Once you give something as a gift it's lost to you forever!
A gift? For you? So greedy!
But... I can show you something if you're nice to me, little lovely. Will you do a nice thing, lovely?
Give them to me... your Geo. Give me your Geo and I'll give you a gift.


Eeuuarrggh! Refuse me, then!
Talking again after refusing
You want a gift. Greedy! Give me Geo and you will get a gift…


No Geo... why? Why don't you have enough Geo?
After obtaining all three Unbreakable Charms
Ahhhhh. Such beautiful, special gifts. So lovely!
I'm ready now. Very ready!
My smell... you'll carry it with you, then?


Ahhh! Then the ritual is complete? And the Master has... moved on? Has he? Perhaps, not?
Ahhh, but more for me. Still more I can do. Gifts, so lovely! Aaaahh. Master would understand.


One final gift! Ahhhhhhhh!
I liked it very much. Very, very good. So good!
Eaaauuurrgggh!! Eaauurggh! Now, I can follow Master…


Enough. It's all enough. I'm very happy now.
Aaaaahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh! Now, I can follow Master...


Shadow and fire will dance together so prettily, I think...


The most exquisite things I've ever experienced! Ahhhhh!
I'll take them with me... precious, precious memories of you!
Precious tastes and smells!





A new land. Different from the last. How many more will we see?
The roads between are dark and long, but the Master's light will always guide us.







Ah. Hello! Hello! I'm new around these parts, so it's marvellous to see so friendly a face, in such a sad town.
The old bug over there was very welcoming, but still I find the place a little melancholy, what with the wind, and the darkness, and the sense of decline... I was hoping my music could go some way to livening up the place.
And now you've arrived with that wonderful, charming aura about you. The whole town feels brighter for it.
Before you hurry about your business, I've a small gift to commemorate a wonderful new friendship. No use for it myself, but I believe it'd look rather fancy upon you.
Please, enjoy it, and lets hope to see much more of one another about town.


My dear friend, are you enjoying my music? It's as upbeat a tune as I know, but I must admit, even it falls a little on the sadder side.
Please know I play it with joy. Being in this town, beside such good company as yourself, I feel remarkably, refreshingly content.


Dear friend, I heard a violent scream from below. Even my song could not mask such a horrible shriek. Was it pain, or rage? I find I'm rather sensitive to such things.
If you're planning to head down, please do stay safe. I'd be dreadfully upset if I forever lost your company.


Ahh. Just marvelous! I'm so glad you'd consider my gift worth wearing, and my, my, it does suit you well.
To be honest, I'm not even sure where I came upon it, but staring at its design, my memory stirs, something, and someone, forgotten, lost far away.
The specifics elude me, but a strange sense remains, fear, but also... longing? Like a strange nostalgia for something that never happened.
I've no need for it in any case, so I'm glad you're enjoying it.


Hmm...Why did I choose to travel here? And how far must I have come... to forget the origin entirely.







Safe, gla... Little Sisters... Gla gla…
Stronger... Gla gla... Bigger... Mother…
Gla gla... Grow and grow... Nice and wet…
Noisy... Gla gla... Scary up up... Stay here, gla…
Gla gla... Mother sends treasure... Gather it up…


Mother’s glow... so angry... so angry…
Talking outside of room
Gla! Gla! Strange thing... lurking... waiting? Gla gla! Mother’s treasures... too scary, gla. Go away, gla gla!


Can it see me? Can it smell me? Ohhh, Mother!


Gla! Wualala! Mother! M-mother! Gla gla gla! Little sisters... grow grow grow! Gla gla... Mother... Am I... Mother...? Gla gla…


Gla gla... Mother... Am I... Mother...? Gla gla…