Welcome, small intruder. I've been sound asleep in here for some time...Some, time? Ah. Yes. Yes. Well now you've gone and woken me up. It's no matter, I suppose. I might even be able to help you.
I am Jiji, and if you have found your way into my chamber you must need my help.
You see, sometimes we leave our regrets behind in the world, like black stains.
If we don't deal with these regrets, hope starts to drain from us.
Do you have regrets of your own, little one? Let me peer into you for a moment…



Ah, hello again. How have you been faring? Have you come to me because of your regrets? Let me peer into you...



How long I must have slept. This land is so much darker now, so thick with stains of regret.
Even the air is murkier. If I sleep again, will the darkness creep in here and swallow me whole?




As a service, I can return your regrets to you, so they can be dealt with. You want that, yes? Ah, but I am very hungry. Perhaps you'd be willing to part with a little of your food? Sleep for as long as I have and you build up quite the appetite.
I can return your regrets to you, if you share your delicious food with me.



Yes, I can see the regrets you've left behind...
 A black stain hidden away in the darkness below us.
 A dark stain nestled amongst strange fungus and bubbling lakes.
 A dark stain in a lush, green land.
 Only faintly though... a black stain deep below the world, surrounded by darkness. Almost a part of it...
 A dark stain nearby, right at the entrance to this kingdom.
 A dark stain surrounded by golden light, in a hive far away from here.
 A dark stain in an ancestral mound... a place of strange worships.
 A dark stain lost in the fog of a strange land.
 A dark stain far way at the very edge of the world.
 A dark stain surrounded by warriors and fools.
 A dark stain almost hidden by the glow of shimmering crystals around it.
 A dark stain surrounded by pipes and running water. It can not be washed away, though...
 A dark stain high above us, surrounded by howling winds.
 A dark stain, marring a garden's beauty.
 A dark stain, barely visible in the tunnels of a nest deep below this kingdom.
 A dark stain just below us, lost amongst the kingdom's twisting roads and highways.
 A dark stain in the heart of the kingdom's capital. Rain can not wash it away.
 A dark stain sitting alone in the Queen's Station.
 A dark stain in a holy place of repose.

Ah, you don't appear to have any lingering regrets. How lucky for you. You don't need the services of one such as I. You seem to be free of regret. Farewell.



You seem to be free of regret. You do not need the services of one such as I. Farewell.



Mmmm... I will enjoy this morsel tremendously. Now, as promised, we will begin the ritual.


Oh? Well, if you have no desire to reconcile with your regrets, I can not help you.



The food I like... it's soft and round and bursts delightfully in your mouth. The smell it emits... just thinking about is getting me excited. It truly is the most sumptuous thing in the world.



Hmm, but you don't have any food on you. At least nothing that interests me. I can't perform on an empty stomach, so please return once you've found something truly tasty... something nourishing.



Ah, you seem to have made peace with your regrets in a most novel, and dare I say brutal, fashion. What a joy to behold. Farewell for now. I will think of you as I savour my meal.



Ooohhhh. My masters would be impressed... Rare it is for one to come to terms with their regrets so completely, yet you seem to have managed it. What darkness must one wade through to achieve such a thing?



Farewell. I will think of you as I savour my meal.


Hmm. A fierce host has settled nearby. Did you summon them? I find their smell... unsettling. Theirs is a scent of distant places, unfamiliar even to me. They have a strange look to them, gaudy and intimidating. Perhaps you suspect that they hide their true appearance?
You'd be right. They favour projection over truth, shrouding themselves in forms dreamed. Best be careful. Assisting them might benefit you, but who knows what suffering it may cause?







A map of the Ancient Basin, a land buried deep down at the bottom of the world.




A map of the City of Tears, capital of Hallownest. Does water really fall from above the city? It sounds beautiful...




A map of Crystal Peak, the huge shining mountain that looms behind Dirtmouth. My husband brought back some crystals from the mines along with the map of this area. What makes them shine so brightly?




A map of Deepnest, a dark and dangerous area at the bottom of the world.
When my husband came back with a map he'd barely filled out I was annoyed, but then I saw how frightened he was! Poor thing.




A map of Fog Canyon, which connects Greenpath to the Fungal Wastes. The air is thick there, so Cornifer found it difficult to find his way. Well, more difficult than he usually does.




A map of the Forgotten Crossroads, the area just below Dirtmouth. Cornifer dragged me down there once. It was an empty, lonely place but still quite impressive.




A map of Fungal Wastes, an area beneath the Forgotten Crossroads that is choked with fungus. My husband brought some mushrooms back from there and tried to cook them. The stench was hideous!




A map of Greenpath, a verdant area of Hallownest close to the surface. Apparently the water there is deadly to the touch!




A map of the Howling Cliffs, which look over Dirtmouth. Cornifer told me that the winds got so loud there he couldn't hear himself speak. Which begs the question...Why was he speaking to himself?


A map of Kingdom's Edge, all the way out at the end of the world. My husband...He travels to such distant places, while I stay here in town.




A map of the Resting Grounds, a sacred place not far from the Crossroads. Cornifer told me he found the area serene and calming, but it sounds a bit spooky to me. No Thanks.




A map of the Royal Waterways, the pipes and chambers below the City of Tears. It sounds like Cornifer really enjoyed exploring the area, though he was damp and shivering when he returned.


A map of the Queen's Gardens, a royal sanctuary close to Greenpath. Cornifer sometimes calls me his Queen...Usually only when I'm angry though.




Highly recommended! If you're having trouble finding your way in the maze of ruins below us, try this charm.
It will pinpoint your location on the map. Incredibly helpful for finding your bearings in unfamiliar locations!



You'll need this if you want to update your map with new areas as you explore.
It's essential for anyone serious about mapping!





Use these pins to mark shopkeepers or any other interesting bugs you find on your travels.
Every so often, you should pass by and see how they're doing. I'm sure they'd like that.


These pins will mark any Stagway Stations you've visited. They must have been very lively places when the stags still travelled through them.


These pins will mark benches and other rest spots on your map. Useful if you're exhausted and just need to find somewhere to sit!



Have you seen those beautiful blue cocoons? I made these pins so you can keep track of them. The cocoons are pretty, but very delicate. Please be careful around them!


I designed these pins to keep track of the kingdom's hot springs. I haven't visited any myself... I wonder if Cornifer might take me sometime? I'm sure you'd make better use of these pins 'til then.



Cornifer has been telling me about these strange whispering roots he's been seeing. I made him some pins so you can record their locations yourself.



Cornifer told me he's found some interesting looking graves and shrines in the depths.You can use these pins to mark down any interesting graves on your map. Go and pay your respects.



Those trams sound like awfully advanced machines. Those ancient bugs must've been a clever lot. These pins should be perfect for recording a tram stop's location.





These markers are new additions to the shop. You can use them to mark interesting spots on your map!
The colour is quite soothing, don't you think?



These markers are new additions to the shop. You can use them to mark interesting spots on your map!
You could use this colour to remind yourself of hard-won battles.



These markers are new additions to the shop. You can use them to mark interesting spots on your map!
The material I used for this colour is quite rare, so it costs a little more.



These markers are new additions to the shop. You can use them to mark interesting spots on your map!
This understated colour makes me think of hunting underground for treasure...





Come to buy a map have you? Its really my husband you should be dealing with, but what a surprise! He's headed down below.
He'll pop back occasionally to deliver new maps for the store but I do wish he'd spend a little more time up here. I've not much interest in retail myself.
Now, let's see what's here for me to sell.




Of all the places to end up, we've picked this dreary town. I'd thought it a temporary stop, then my husband became obsessed with that old ruin.
Now he's spending all his time down there. He argues cartography is sound business, but other than you, who's buying?



Are you enjoying yourself down in the ruins? At times my husband makes Hallownest sound a wonder, but sometimes it seems a ghastly, dangerous place.



After more supplies? You've already bought so much. Unfortunately for now, you've cleaned us out of anything worth selling.
Cornifer will no doubt be pleased, though I do wonder what he plans to spend all that Geo on.



My husband mentioned some strange roots that grow about the kingdom and suggested I make a pin to mark them.
Cornifer thinks my pin's depiction look grander than the sad limp thing he comes across, but I figure, that's not a bad thing. Who'd want to buy a pin of a limp root?
Corny was telling me of some distinctive graves and shrines about the kingdom. I've made a new pin to represent them.
This one was quite challenging to make, and I laboured over the details. It's a nice result so I think it's worth a little more.


Apparently Hallownest has giant metal carriages called trams? Sounds unnecessary to me, given those old stag lines that Corny always talks about.
Still, I've made a pin to represent a tram station. Might be useful if you're inclined to make your map more detailed.
It wasn't too hard to make, so I'm not charging a premium for it.



Cornifer's home at last, but look at him, he's exhausted. He always does this, furiously charts a place, then collapses once he's done.
He'll be sleeping for some time I imagine, so even with him home, I'm still lost for company.
Ahhh, but I do love the bug, even his faults. Seeing his passion for maps, it's something of an inspiration.
Corny keeps asking me to join him on his adventures and I've always declined. Maybe next time I should accept the offer?



I'm glad I put down my weapon, this quiet life with Corny makes me a lot happier. It would be nice to stretch my legs again though... sometime soon...





Have you seen them? The travellers who set up camp outside of town? I was interested at first, not a lot has been happening lately. But they have a... sinister feeling to them. You can feel it, right? I've told Cornifer he's not to speak to them. His heart and his mind are a little too open sometimes.



A stylish fellow's made his way to town. Normally I'm wary of musicians, all pomp and ego.
This one seems okay... and he's not asked for any Geo just yet. Let's hope it stays that way.




This is a precious thing. A beautiful charm. I made it for you! If you hold it you'll feel a lot healthier. If you're afraid of dying, you need this charm!



Very, very, special and valuable charm! Do you want to find more Geo? Hold this charm and go hunting! Then bring any Geo you find back to me!



You're weak, aren't you? You should give me Geo. If you do, I'll give you this charm I made. It will make you stronger. Your enemies, and everyone else, will fear you at last…



It’s broken now, and its power is sleeping. Very sad! Give me Geo, and I’ll fix it.




Don't try to sneak past me. I can smell you.
Hmm... Do you collect a lot of Geo?
Give me Geo, and you can see something... nice.



You're a fool, aren't you?


Still?! You're a greedy, nasty little wretch. You need to share your Geo...



You've changed your mind, haven't you? Give me Geo, and you can see something... nice.



Let me show you then... take a look. Do you want them? If you really, really want them, I'll trade them... for more Geo. More Geo.





I've got nothing left to show you. Do you want something more?
You're so greedy...


o
A pauper... not enough Geo.
Leave now. Return with more Geo.



Eeeauuggh! That smell you carry with you...
Ah! Ah! Ahhhhh!
...Very tasty!
You're sweet... to share such a tasty smell with me. Do you want a gift in return?
Cheaper... Yes. My beautiful gifts... I'll give them to you. Cheaper.



Eeeauuggh! You broke it! I gave you that charm as a gift, and you broke it! Clumsy little fool... Nasty.
Apologise, ask me nicely, and I'll fix it for you. Give me Geo and I'll fix it for you.



I'll make more... and they'll give me more Geo. If someone comes by, they have to give me their Geo.
If you have enough Geo, you become a king. When I get enough Geo, I'll become a king...



You don't like to be hurt, do you? Or... maybe you don't mind...?



Are you nice? If you're nice you'll give me Geo.
Maybe you aren't so nice...? Don't try to trick me... I'm not stupid.



Beautiful, aren't they? These gifts I have... they're shiny and dangerous and lovely.
I made them. Don't be jealous... Give me Geo and you can have one.



Hmm. The air has changed, I can smell something new. Dangerous things are drifting through here now... are you scared?
If you stay here... I won't protect you.



Are you curious? You're wondering... how I make my special gifts.
Eeeauuggh! Don't try to steal my secrets! I'll steal them right back.
If you're cruel to me... you'll be sorry.


Enough talking! Your jabbering... annoying. Step over here and show me your Geo.


ed
My charm! What did you do to it?! The smell... different. Strange, but nice. Very nice!
That smell... talks to me. Someone, somewhere... very nice.



Eaurgh... Eaaauuurrgggh!! Eaauurggh!
Those charms... that smell! So so much! I want to... Yesss!
I know where you are now. Above me. Much above me, but I know where to go. I will come! Don't try to hide from me!





Aha! Another warrior finds their way to our fair Colosseum. Ours is the final destination for all seeking trials of intense and deadly combat.
All one has to do is place their mark upon their Trial Board of choice and lo! The arena's gate will open.
There's a small fee attached to each trial, but I'm sure as skilled a combatant as yourself will have accrued a wealth of Geo.
Now, before you draw your nail and rush eagerly to battle, I'll offer one quick word of advice.
There's a warriors' pit just below here, where others like yourself await their own trials. I'd strongly advise using it to rest up before placing your mark.
Oh and have no doubt, I'm a fearsome warrior myself. Don't go judging me by my size, or my current... errr... constraint. The Colosseum beckons us both! I'll be back in battle soon.



Welcome back, warrior!



 Make a contribution, and you can enter the Trial of the Warrior/Conqueror/Fool.
 You won't make a contribution? No one ever won glory by clinging to their Geo...
 Very well then, a new trial is open to you. I hope your performance is spectacular... To enter a trial, step over to the board and place your mark. From that point on, your destiny is your own...
 Ah, you lack the Geo to make a contribution. We can't make an exception, I'm afraid. Return once you are worthier... and wealthier.


Stop there! That trial is closed to those who haven't made the proper contribution. Step over here, quickly, and bring your Geo with you!



Not so fast! That trial is closed to those without the proper experience. Try one of the other trials first.


Will you place your mark and attempt a trial?


You've placed your mark, and the great gate has opened. Go on! Step into the Colosseum and cut your way to victory.



You placed your mark and left! What cowardice! Maybe you don't have what it takes? A true warrior strides unstopping into battle. They gain strength by vanquishing others, not in flight from them.



What is this? I could've sworn you'd already entered the fray? And were killed in spectacular fashion, but now... I can't be sure. Must've imagined it. I do tend to visualise new combatant's meeting their end. It's good training for the mind, especially whilst your movement's somewhat limited.


A true fool keeps on fighting, even when there is no more glory to be gained. Step over to a board and make your mark! Show us how foolish you truly are!



Lord Fool, give me another chance. I'll prove my strength to you!


Hello there dearie. I was about to close up shop and run, till you came along. I provide a banking service if you're interested.
Losing one's Geo is a terrible thing and it's so much more likely if you carry it about on yourself.
My vault is much more secure. In all my time as a banker, I've never lost a single Geo!
Maybe you'd considered opening an account?



I understand. It's difficult to part with hard won Geo. I'll be here if you change your mind.


Oh, hang on. You don't have enough Geo to buy an account, sadly. Once you've collected 100 Geo, come straight back and we'll get your account opened up.



Have you reconsidered opening an account? Losing Geo is a terrible thing. You'll be much more confident out there in the big, dangerous world, knowing it's safe with me.



Still not interested? You're far too hesitant. Make bold decisions and follow them through, that's the trick to seeing your Geo grow.


You're a smart one. Next time some dreadful beastie gets the best of you, you'll be glad to know your Geo's safe within my shel- errr...my vault. Now let's do some banking.


Hello dearie! Keen to do some banking?


Well done dearie! I'll keep your Geo safe.



Thanks for the withdrawal. Don't go spending it all at once!



Changed your mind? Well, come back any time.


Goodbye then. Stay safe.



...When next to return to that delightful spa?... The waters so ease the tension in my shell...


Oh...A-ah, hello again d-dearie. Fancy running into you he-here.
Is it your Geo you're after? We-ll you see, it's ahhhhh. It's a sad thing, but...It's gone. All spent.
The cost of running a bank can be high, so I had to charge a somewhat large service fee to your account.
Perfectly legitimate, of course. Just part of the whole banking deal...ah ha ha...ha.
But...ahh..thank you so much for visiting me, and run along now won't you. If you allow me some privacy, I'll be done here soon. Then you can have the spa all to yourself.
...No h-hard feelings, okay?


Wah? Oh... you- you're back. I just thought, when you left, that was the last I'd... ahh... see of you.
It's just... ahh... your Geo issue. You should know, it was a big stress on me as well. Such a stress in fact, that I've left the banking game for good.



I--I've nothing left...I ahhh, I suppose, ahh, you might be on your way now then?
Y-y-yes, I think that would be b-best...
...I think I might j-j-just rest right here a little while. Yes I think that would be best.



...Oohh no... Leave me be, creepy, little thing...







Have you brought me another nail to be honed? Leave it on the ground and return later, if you're still breathing.
Hmm?
Oh. I thought you were someone else.
After a Nailsmith are you? Well you've found one. I'm not much for talk, but if its a nail that needs repair then you've come to the right bug.
Your own nail is in quite a sorry state. It's obviously not one of mine. Still, anything can be refined with enough effort and skill, even that broken blade.



I see you have some Pale Ore. A rare, fine metal, that. Give me the ore and some Geo for my efforts, and I'll reforge your nail to make it stronger.



If you'd like, I can reforge your nail. It'll make the blade far more deadly.


You're not interested, then? Suit yourself.



Ah, you don't have the Geo? Come and see me when you do.



As you wish. I'll get to work then.


Hmm? You're still here. Is there something else you want?


Hmm? Oh, you've returned.


...To forge the perfect Nail…





There we go. The reforging is complete.
I've honed your nail's edge. You'll find it much stronger than it used to be.
Head out there and test its strength against your foes.
If you bring me a piece of Pale Ore, I can forge it into your nail and make it stronger still.



There we go. The reforging is complete.
I've added a channel to your nail. It should cut much more efficiently. You'll find it stronger than it used to be.
Head out there and test its blade against your foes.
If you bring me two pieces of Pale Ore, I can forge it into your nail and make it stronger still.



Here we are. The reforging is complete.
I've modified the nail to spiral form. A very tricky task it was. You'll find it stronger than ever before.
Off you go now. Cut your way forward.
If you bring me three pieces of Pale Ore, I can forge it into your nail and make it stronger still.


It's done. The reforging is done.
Your nail is much stronger than it used to be. As strong as it could ever be.
In only your weapon have I seen such potential. Finally, I behold the majesty of a Pure Nail.
To think this moment has come upon me so soon...
...I... I must step outside a moment...



With a Pure Nail forged, my work in this lifetime comes to an end. My only remaining desire is to see and feel the nail strike true!
I beg you, cut me down. As my final moment in life, I want to taste the blade's exquisite edge.
After all this time, all this toil... haven't I earned it?
Do not hesitate. I beg you. Cut me down! I want to taste that blade's exquisite edge.



My life's work achieved... What more is left...?





Hmm? Oh, hello traveller. How strange that we should meet again in a world as vast as this.
I must thank you for not killing me when I asked you to. I was irritated at first, but I had some time to think up there and I soon saw the wisdom in your decision.
The world is made of more than metal and weapons. I set out exploring, and soon found my way here.
Sheo is a master of many arts, and has promised to teach me what he can. I think I'll be quite happy here.



I'm afraid I can't speak at length. If I move too much, Sheo's masterwork will be ruined and I'd hate to see him upset.
Though he may seem imposing, in truth he's a delicate sort.
In all the dark of Hallownest, who'd have thought I'd meet such an inspiring soul.



We're building a full suite of the Kingdom's Knights. In their time, I barely ever paid them attention, but Sheo keenly remembers each.
It's so refreshing. Nothing like the crude practice of Nailwork. I just love all the intricate details.
This is fabulous. I'd never have believed my claws capable of such deft construction.


....An age spent toiling alone... this is much nicer...






These journals give us an interesting glimpse into the minds and hearts of those who lived before us.
They're a common find, so I can't offer you too much for them.



These ornate seals were the official symbols of the King and his Knights, and were treasured by those who carried them.
The King and his Knights are long gone, but the seals still hold value as curiosities. I'll pay a modest price for them.



An icon of Hallownest's King, who was revered as both a god and a ruler. Made out of a mysterious white material, these are rare and very valuable.
If you'll sell it to me, I'll pay a good price.



Ah! This seems like a simple egg, but it's actually a precious relic from before the birth of Hallownest!
I'll pay you a small fortune for it. Please sell it to me!





Aye Aye. Come searching for rare items have you? Well hands off! This collection is mine and I won't be selling to grubby little wanderers.
Still, I imagine you come across many interesting items in your travels. Maybe you'd care to part with some? I'll offer a fair trade for each.


No touching the antiques! My stock is not for sale.
Still, if you've managed to come upon any interesting trinkets during your travels, I may be willing to trade. Step over to the counter here and I'll see what you've got.



There's a forgotten history hidden in this kingdom's antiques, though few seem willing to look. Others come just to claw away at the cracks and ruins.
Pah! Scavengers and thieves. It's contemptible.


Admiring my shop are you? Well I'm no squatter.
This place was dead empty when I moved in and there's no one left alive who'd lay claim to the tower.
If you fancy yourself a domicile in the city, go find somewhere else, preferably in another building.
I'm well content with just my relics. I'm not after neighbours.



We've talked enough I think. Relics need cleaning. Texts need deciphering. Out with you! This isn't a museum.



That nail you bear looks mighty blunt. There're cracks all through it. It's as much a relic as the objects in my shop!
I've little interest in weapons myself, but it may be an idea to hunt down that old Nailsmith.
His hut's on the outskirts of the city. Not that far from here. He might help add some sting to your weapon, provided he's feeling generous.



Hm. Looks like you don't have any relics on you. If you manage to find any in good condition, bring them to me and I'll give you a fair amount of Geo for them.



Urgh! What do you think you're doing, coming into my nice little shop stinking like that?
These relics have been through enough. They don't need you spreading your stench all over them! Crawl back to the Waterways or wherever you came from!


...This short one's got an odd look about it... though vaguely familiar?..





Gone out to clear my head. Will be back soon. If you have something you absolutely must sell, come find me in Fountain Square.



Oh? What are you doing out in this miserable downpour?
Impressive fountain isn't it? I'm sure we'd be able to appreciate it more if we weren't both getting drenched.
That knight up there was an important one. The plaque here mentions its 'sacrifice,' which carries something of an ominous tone.
Probably met some sort of horrible end, though it sounds like the knight's goal may have been achieved in the process.
In all the relics I've collected, I've yet to find a clue as to what that was.



I'll be getting back to the shop soon. If I stay out here too long I'll get washed into the Waterways.
Come and visit if you like. If you have relics, I mean. I'm not much for chatter.


...Who were you mystery knight?... Why no mention beyond your fountain?..




A Wanderer's Journal, eh?
Though they're common finds about the kingdom, I much enjoy the deciphering of their text.
Read together they paint a morbid tale. It seems fate was unkind to most who travel within Hallownest's ruin.


Another Wanderer's Journal?
I might not offer a lot for each but they're plentiful about the caverns and I doubt you'll find another willing to make trade for Geo.

A Wanderer's Journal? Yes. Yes. I'll add it to the pile with the others.
I don't know when I'll get to decipher this one. It's long hard work translating the many languages of the bugs that explore these caverns.


A Wanderer's Journal?
You've a knack for finding these. Corpses must be frequent on your journey. No doubt your nail's created many more.


Another Wanderer's Journal, eh?
This journal is of traditional stone type. Text endures well upon it.
In its declining age, this city switched from stone to parchment woven of spider's silk.
It's a small tragedy, but the moisture in these towers has rendered most of those texts illegible.


A Wanderer's Journal?
Have you heard that saying about stone journals?
If danger lurks close by and your nail has dulled with wear, Just swing your journal at your foes with blunt and deadly flair.
S'a good one isn't it! And accurate. They sure have a heft to them.



What's that? A Wanderer's Journal?
I've so many of these now. Once I get around to deciphering them all, I'll be the preeminent scholar on Hallownest's dead.



A Wanderer's Journal?
It's quite incredible how many of these you've collected. You must have travelled the breadth of the kingdom to accrue such a haul.




FirstA Hallownest Seal, eh? Very interesting this.
Do you know of the Kingdom's five great knights? They're revered figures of Hallownest, often mentioned in the annals of the Kingdom, but only as a group.
Both their names and appearance seem to have been expunged from history.
So long has passed since their time. It'd be a grand achievement to discover their identities.



Another Hallownest Seal? Pass it over.
Ah. I enjoy collecting their like, but there's little information to be gleaned of each.
Mind you, they do keep a nice shine about them and there's nothing wrong with appreciating something purely on aesthetic merits.



A Hallownest Seal, eh? Give it here.
Do you have anything else for me? If not, get your damp little self out of my home.



Another Hallownest Seal?
Others have told me there's a statue out by the city's entrance depicting a large knightly figure. Could be one of the Kingdom's great five.
I'd have looked it over myself, but the gate's long been shut tight and it's too much hassle taking the long way round with all those blasted husks about.



Yep, that's another Hallownest Seal alright.
The shop'll be overflowing with these things soon. Gah! I'd never guessed so many would still be lying around.
If they're as common as you make them seem, maybe I've been offering too much for them?



Another Hallownest Seal? Pass it over then.



A Hallownest Seal?
You're a talented collector, alright. The best I've met. If you keep at it, I worry I'll run out of space in the shop!





A King's Idol, eh?
Hallownest's king was an elusive figure, deified by the citizens. With the king rarely seen, worship was offered through these idols.
There's an expert craft to them. Few alive could match this skill.


A King's Idol?
If you look closely, each of these idols is subtly different. There are fine engravings about them that take some time to decipher.
I suspect each was tailored to the owner. A personalised symbol of the king's omnipotence.



Another King's Idol?
Have you visited the remnants of his palace? It's down below this city, in the bedrock of the kingdom.
Must've been an impressive sight in its time. Now there's nothing left.
It's a strange thing though. There are no signs of conflict around the area. It's as though the whole place just vanished.



A King's Idol?
I've often wondered the true visage of the king. Depictions are of an imposing, gleaming figure and a fiercely horned crown.
I suspect there's much embellishment in the imagery though. A ruler seeking worship tends to hide their blemishes. It'd do no good to appear a common bug.



A King's Idol?
With as many of these as you've delivered, the other Relic Seekers are like to think I've gone mad for the King!
Pah! Who am I kidding. They'll only be jealous of my collection. Find me more





An Arcane Egg, eh? Now this, this is an ancient thing. These relics are the prize of my profession. There's knowledge hidden within, though it's very difficult, painstaking work to extract.
One large understanding can be gleamed though. This civilisation may claim itself the first, but something else did exist within this place before Hallownest.
Each egg offers a narrow glimpse into that forgotten age.



Another Arcane Egg?
It's a rare chance to own two of these. I'll be the envy of all my colleagues, though my purse is feeling much lighter for it.
These eggs are the most desired find from time before Hallownest, but they're not the only remnant of that age.
You may have come upon them, those old statues that seem a store for soul? They too prove its existence, though in a larger, cruder form.



A third Arcane Egg? You're an exceptional explorer to have found so many.
An egg is a perfect protective form. In Hallownest we use stone journals or tablets, our text engraved atop. These eggs are far more secure. Their records are stored within.
In fear of damaging the eggs, I'm only able to access the outer layer, but it's clear those in the distant past could somehow access information stored even deeper within.
If only I could find a way to do so. Just think of the discoveries to be made!



A fourth Arcane Egg! I wouldn't have believed it possible. I've never met a bug with your knack for uncovering this Kingdom's treasures.
You must have some sort of sense about you? Or maybe these eggs are somehow drawn to you.
My fellows have claimed there's a will of sorts within each egg, that each seeks its own bearer, or reject them.
That'd be a subtle power indeed, and I remain sceptical. Relic Seekers are prone to confusing facts with fable.






Have you ever drunk that bright blue liquid, 'lifeblood'? It's a bit of a taboo, but it makes you feel much healthier doesn't it?
This charm seeps lifeblood and will certainly improve your constitution!



That nail you wield is adorable! But do you sometimes feel it could be a little... longer?
Ho! Ho ho ho! Go on, take this charm home with you. Suddenly, your enemies will be within reach...



I love the simple design on this little fellow! Very classy! It's made out of a nice, solid, heavy material too.
Wear it and you'll be able to stay firmly in place when swinging your little nail around.


Are you a spellcaster, you little scoundrel? Ho ho! I'm only teasing.
If you ever learn any spells you should buy this charm for yourself. I've heard it will make a spell much stronger!



The crystal set in the centre is lovely, isn't it? Exquisite, even! I've heard that crystals help you to "focus", so if that's something you're interested in you should take this beauty home!



You want to wear a lot of charms, don't you? Of course you do!
Buy this charm notch and you'll be able to wear more of your charms at once.


This is a special item for those who love charms as much as I do.
Once you own 10 charms, I'll gladly sell it to you.


This is a special item for those who love charms as much as I do.
Once you own 18 charms, I'll gladly sell it to you.


This is a special item for those who love charms as much as I do.
Once you own 25 charms, I'll gladly sell it to you.


A special blessing from me to you. You've earned it!






Ooooooooooooohhhhhhh, you surprised me! Hello, hello! Come in, sweetling! Come in and make yourself at home.
I'm Salubra, and this is my cosy little Charm store. Did the townsfolk out there tell you to come and visit me? Mmm, yes! This is a lovely little village isn't it? Warm and intimate and full of life.



Mmm... What were we talking about? Oh yes, Charms! I can see you've started your own collection. Very nice! I'll show you some of my own, and you can take one home with you if you like!



Mmm... What were we talking about? Oh yes, Charms! I'm surprised a stylish little gadfly like yourself isn't wearing any, actually.
Charms are gorgeous, mystical, one-of-a-kind accessories with a spark of power woven into their cores. Just wearing one is enough to change your life! You'll do things you never thought possible!
Take a look at some of the Charms I have for sale. You can take one home with you if you like!


It's rare enough that someone enters my store, but even rarer to meet one so striking!
Those impressive horns! That fierce weapon. The air of mystery! Ooooh. It's enough to make me swoon.

Ooooooooooooohhhhhhh, you're building up quite the Charm collection, aren't you? Quite the little connoisseur.
I'd bet you'd like to wear more Charms at once, hmm? I've got a special item for sale that I think you'll be very, verrrry interested in! Mmm!



Oooohhhh! You flamboyant little gadfly! Your Charm collection has expanded quite a bit, hasn't it?
I think it's about time you bought another Notch so you can wear more Charms at once. Go on... spoil yourself! Mmmm!


Oooohhhh! Your charm collection is getting positively enormous! I'm so jealous!
I think it's about time you bought another Notch so you can wear more Charms at once. Go on... spoil yourself! Mmmm!


Mmmmmmmmm! Look at you! Every time I see you, you've collected even more Charms!
I think it's about time you bought another Notch so you can wear more Charms at once. Go on... spoil yourself! Mmmm!


It's a bit of a sin to wear too many Charms at once, isn't it? Sometimes less is more! Mmmm!
Yes, you shouldn't try to cram on more Charms than you can handle. The effect could be positively overwhelming!



...Dear dear, I really must hold it together, must appear calm, but this creature... is just divine...



Do you wear a lot of Charms at once? It's a lot of fun isn't it, mixing and matching them to get the perfect combination?
I don't know whether you've noticed, but some Charms seem to like each other. Yes! Mmm!
When Charms like each other, they shine even brighter and sing even more sweetly!
Even more reason to try all sorts of fun and surprising combinations of Charms! Mmmmmmm! You'll show me whenever you have a new favourite, right?


My dear. A blessing for you. With your excessive patronage and those startling good looks, you've more than earned it.
Mmmmmm yess... I hope my blessing brings you everything you desire! Don't be a stranger sweetums.



Goodness, goodness. You've gone and bought all my lovely charms! What a stunning, colourful collection you've amassed. Mmmmmm! You're even more the attractive bug, clad in all those wonderful, sparkling things.
I may have nothing more to give, but you must come back and visit from time to time. Such a dashing figure frequenting my store. I bet the whole village is jealous. Mmm hmm!


My dapper gadfly, would you care to know how charms are made? I don't often tell my customers, what with the truth being a little morbid. But you're a sharp one so you may have guessed already.
Few ways a charm appears but mainly it's from final wish, a dying bug's potent desire crystallised into these gorgeous, powerful trinkets.
Now don't go getting too sad. There are exceptions of course, and really, it's quite beautiful, makes them all the more precious. Mmhhmm.
Just think of all the little bug souls that went into creating your collection! It's like a crowd of strangers in your pouch, or purse, or...err....wherever it is you keep them.






Simply, a simple key. It will fit a variety of locks, which is useful if you like to poke around in places you don't belong.



I found this under the counter. Some creature must have laid it here while I was stuck down in the ruins.
I suppose you could buy it? I won't miss its sour odour.



What's more important? A light to guide your way, or a friend who'll stay by your side?
Why not both? Take this bright little fellow as your companion and he'll light your way through the thickest darkness.



Do you find yourself leaving a lot of Geo behind as you hurry through the caverns?
This charm will make sure that any loose change finds its way back to you.


Life in Hallownest can be tough, always taking hits and getting knocked around. This charm grants you more time to recover after taking damage. Useful if you need to escape from a tight spot.



You enjoy smacking about foes with that nail of yours, right? With this charm equipped, you'll be able to send them flying further with every hit!



An explorer found this fancy key floating in the waterways of the city far below us. I've not cleaned it.



This old thing? Merely a fragment of something larger. Still, maybe you can make some use of it.


I found another of these. If you look closely, there's some nice engraving work on them.
I suspect I undercharged last time, and this is the only one left. It's gonna cost you!


You're collecting these, aren't you? Well you're in luck, I found another in my storeroom.
This is the last one though, so it's priced accordingly.


As it turns out, I do actually have one more of these shards left. Very last one!
I feel bad charging you so much for the previous shards, especially because it means I have to charge even more for this one.


Vessel Fragment - A piece of a Soul Vessel. You know, those ghastly looking orb things?
I don't really like the aura about it, but it's quite rare so I'll have to charge you a high price.


I dug out another of these. Turns out I had a complete set. If they didn't give me the creeps, I'd put the pieces together myself.


Sprintmaster - You like it? It's a recent addition to my collection. Handsome thing, isn't it?
Holding it lets you run around quickly and tirelessly, as though you were young again! Or, erm, so I'm told.





...ugghh, Oro you oaf.... You wield your nail... like a club...
...Esmy... how much deeper do we have to go...
Oh! What?! Who are you?! ...I see. This old village. What a strange dream, to have led me down here! If you hadn't found me, I don't think I would've ever woken.
I'm Sly. Usually, I live an uneventful life up in Dirtmouth. The air in these ruins doesn't agree with me, so I'd best be getting back. If you return above, come and see me. I'm probably the friendliest face left there, and I can thank you properly for your good deed.



...Geo. Geo. All the world is Geo. No nail can withstand its might...



Ah, hello! I knew we'd meet again. How do you like my cosy little store? I've made myself pretty comfortable here, selling old trinkets to travellers like yourself.
If you're planning a trip below, I've several items that may improve your chance of survival.



I see they've opened that mapping shop across the way. I suppose a little competition is healthy.
Perhaps I should start to sell maps as well... or is that a little aggressive? Heh. All's fair in a world made of Geo.



Pockets feeling empty? If you need some more Geo, take a trip into the ruins below us and hunt around. Just take care not to fall into a haze. I won't be coming down to rescue you.



Ah, still looking for something to buy? Are your Geo weighing you down? Unfortunately, you seem to have cleared out everything I'd be willing to part with. Nothing left at all!
I think there might be a few old trinkets down in my storeroom, but I lost the key a while ago.
So, no more business between us I'm afraid! For now at least. Get out of here and let me spend some quality time with all the Geo you've gifted me.
Back again? You know I haven't any stock left, yes? You've cleaned me out.
Or were you hoping to sneak a peek at my mountain of Geo? Well it's mine now! And fairly traded.



What do you have there? Why, that's the key to my storeroom! I thought I'd lost it for good.
Hmm? Did you find it in those old mines perhaps? Very curious. I've no idea how it ended up in such a remote place.
Very honest of you to return it to me, yes. Very kind. And now that I can open my old storeroom up, I can sell you some of the rare stock that's been gathering dust in there.
These items may be a little time-worn, but they still retain their full market value. Very precious stuff! Take a look...



...Wherever you are... Whatever it is you do now... I hope you three are looking after yourselves…





Hmm, you seem a little different. Something has changed in your bearing.
Ah! The way you hold your nail! So you've learnt a Nail Art...
Very interesting. I wonder, do you have the passion to continue your training?


You've found a new nail, then? It looks like a much finer weapon than the last.
Hmm? Oh, this is the same nail... but it's been honed! By someone extremely skilled...
A nail is an extension of ourselves, it is the instrument by which we shape the world around us. It's a sacred duty to keep its edges sharp.
...Heh, sorry. I shouldn't ramble on like that. Let's talk Geo instead.



...So, another would join our group.
I have a gift for you, warrior. As a shopkeeper, I admit parting with it for free is rather difficult.
But as the Great Nailsage I must recognise your skill. You have mastered the arts of my remaining pupils. Now tradition decrees you too may hold the symbol.
Wear it proudly, Nailmaster. You shall be the last to receive its like.



Off you go Nailmaster. I've nothing more to give you...
Nothing for free at least. I'll be up briefly and eager take your Geo in trade for my precious wares.


How are your travels, Nailmaster? As time goes by, I'm sure you'll only grow stronger.
If you see your fellow Nailmasters again, tell them I carry them in my thoughts always. And that they should come and buy something from their old teacher as a mark of respect.


...These refined weapons...The battles of Geo are much deadlier…





I've been hearing about the strangers that have come to town. They're strange indeed from what's been told. What interest does this tired little place hold for them? I'm thinking you may know the answer to that. None of my business of course, but I'd be wary of their deals and promises. Keep your nail half-drawn, if you understand me.



Another bug's arrived. And quite a racket he's making in the square. Worse, he's not a Geo to his name! Only that blasted, squealing instrument.
Why is it always the poor that decide to stay?







...Is It... here, waking Jinn?.. Observed... Small. Dull. No Soul. Long shadow... It is blank, but brave... Does it bring offering? Jinn, has only many small, shiny things... useless to Jinn, but will trade for wonderful gift.



...Does It wish to trade? If trade is desired, step before Jinn and trade can commence.



...It came back. Does it remember Jinn? Will It offer a gift? Trade for useless shinies?




...Does It want to know of Jinn?... Jinn, little know... cannot tell of self. Too young, its thought, its mind. Born to provide, to trade. Will help, to trade, yes?... Bring Jinn gift. Wonderful gift.
...Its body, so soft... Fragile... Inferior built. Not like Jinn. Jinn, does not take... hurt. Jinn shall last.
It likes Jinn's shinies? Jinn has many... many. Gifts, from another, helped by Jinn. Hurt by Jinn. Jinn did not want shinies. Only clutter. Mess. But can trade, for gift.



...A King, the tiny It becomes. Jinn knows that mark, but cannot bow. Jinn's masters are other... minds other... Not order. Not order, they seek.



This It... A rare It. Has not seen many, so vulnerable, but triumphant. Makes Jinn feel a thing... surprise? Jinn misjudged... The It is not inferior. Perhaps... different? Different to Jinn. More complete? Different... like masters?


Does Jinn dream?... What purpose, mine?... To serve, enough?





...Would It offer gift so wonderful to Jinn...?



...It refuses to trade...? It has a will... all Its own. Can refuse. Jinn will keep waiting... until a gift comes.


...Another? Does It offer gift to Jinn...?



...Gift is... horrible gift. Disgusting... But Jinn knows one who appreciates...Friend of Jinn. Eats nasties. Loves nasties. Shall accept. Shall provide. Shinies for tiny It... Good to give Shinies. Less burden for Jinn.
...Another horrible... disgusting gift. Jinn will keep gift for... Friend of Jinn... and It shall have shinies. That is trade...


...A problem. It did not bring the gift Jinn wants. No trade can occur... None.
...Will It seek out the gift Jinn wants? The horrible... round... disgusting gift? Will It return? Jinn will be waiting…


Greetings, little one! It's been an age since I last heard the ringing of a station bell. It echoed down the stagways and called me to you.
I've grown stiff and tired over these many years and I've forgotten much, but the sound of the bell will always call me back.
These stagways stretch the depths of Hallownest. If you want to travel them, hail me from the platform. I will take you where you need to go.



Eager to travel the stagways? Just hop upon that platform, give me the signal and we'll soon be on our way. Ready to go, little one?



This place... we are near the surface, I believe? There is a town here. You should take the opportunity to rest.
This place was once full of travellers coming and going. It seems much quieter now.

It was a long time ago, but I remember when these highways and crossroads pulsed with life. These are the paths I first carried passengers through when I was young.
Those travellers are long gone, yet I still remain. Now it seems it's just you and I and the furtive creatures scratching and squirming all around us.


I see another takes rest upon the bench. There's something unpleasant about that one, but a stag station's doors are open to all.
If he requests passage, I'll offer it gladly. My duty as a stag far outweighs any personal distaste.

My, this place much changed since I last saw it. The greenery grows so wild the station's like to be consumed by it.


Ahh, this gladdens me. The Queen's Station has opened once more. This place was a bustling hub of travel, well-placed for travellers visiting the outer edges of the land.
You're quite the explorer to find this place.



I remember this station well. A common trip it was. Goods from all over the kingdom were transported here.
Not a lot was sent back the other way though.

Little one, we stand in the King's Station! Named of course for the King of Hallownest, he who ordered the building of the stagways and stations.
The King never rode the stagways himself, but I've heard he was a glorious bug to behold, bright and radiant in visage, so much so it hurt to look at him.


Ahh, little one... Where are we? I have never been to this station. It has a strange air of danger to it. Let me take you somewhere safer, quickly.


The Resting Grounds... Passengers would come here to conduct rituals for those who had passed on...Not any more though.
Perhaps the dead conduct their own rituals now?


Before you rang the bell, I'd almost forgotten this station existed. It was not often used by the common bugs, being a well-guarded retreat for our late Queen.
Even as overgrown as they've become, these gardens are still beautiful after all this time. I'm sure the Queen would be happy to know that.



Ah! What station is this, hidden all the way at the bottom of the world?
Until I heard the bell calling, I didn't even know the Stagways travelled so deep. You've discovered something quite astounding, little one!
No matter how old I grow, the world still keeps surprises like this stowed away...


You've opened several stag stations now, haven't you? I'm thankful for the opportunity to once more travel through the kingdom.
As I visit more places I feel my memories returning to me, like the stagways of my mind are running once more.
Continue to open the stations and you'll have my deepest gratitude.



Ahh, many stag stations have been opened. Again I can travel the breadth of the kingdom. So many grand thoroughfares and old sideways I'd forgotten.
Somewhere amongst the lines lies the Stag Nest, the place where I was born and raised. I'd thought its location lost to my failing mind, but now I can almost remember the path.
If you keep opening stag stations and beckoning me through them, perhaps I'll again find that Nest. Ahh, I would like that very much!


Little one! I've found it! the Stag Nest, where I was born and raised.
I've yet to go there again. My duty binds me to travel only where I am called, but if you wished to see it yourself, I could take you there.
None may remain to welcome us, but the nest is still a sight to behold! Give me the word, and we will go there at once.



What do you think of my old home, little one?
It was full of life, once. Stags coming and going, swapping stories of the places they'd been and the passengers they'd met.
For a long time now, I've considered myself the only one remaining. The last stag.
But being in the Nest again... there's something in the air. A smell, or a warmth, or a presence perhaps?
Could it be, other stags have made their way out into the wider world?
Being back in my old home... I feel the weight of my long life bearing down on me. I carry it proudly, though. Wherever I travel, the memories of my family and my kind come with me.
Yes, I will hold onto that hope. My kin, still alive, still out there, journeying beyond these lands.
But for me, I could never abandon the stagways. Not as long as passengers still need them.
I can tell you still have important work to do, don't you little one? I will be your companion as long as my old body still serves. Let us enjoy the old stagways of this kingdom together a little longer.



That pass you hold! Is it not for that ghastly machine, the tram? I hope you're not thinking of riding on that grotesque contraption.
The thought a mere machine could attempt what we stags do! Foolish...Very foolish.


That flower you'e carrying... It looks quite beautiful, but also very delicate. I fear if you travel with me it will be ruined.
If you need to keep it intact, I'd suggest using your own legs to carry it to its destination.



I tire so easily now, and my old legs seem to ache more and more. Still, I'm lucky to grow old at all... so many others haven't.






Mmmnnnnnnngghhh... Don't take something that isn't yours. That's the law. Everything you see... it belongs to me. Don't be angry. I'll share my food with you... if you give me Geo.



Mmmnnnnnnngghhh... The water brings me everything I wish for... I just need to find it. It brought you here, too. Are you hungry? I'll share my food with you... if you give me Geo.


I'll share my food with you... if you give me Geo.



Mmnnnnggghhh...? Your smell... Are you a friend, too? If you're a friend, I'll share my food with you. When you see him again, our friend... tell him thank you. For helping me.


Mmmnnnnnnngghhh... I'll find you again. The water will bring you to me. I just need to keep searching... and praying.
When we meet again... I want you to say... that you're sorry.



...Help me... Find…




Mngh? If you don't want it, I'll keep it.



Why don't you have enough Geo?! Mnnghh! I won't share my food if you can't give me Geo.



Mnngh... this Geo is mine now. Don't try to take it back. Here, take your food with you when you leave.



You have a lot of food, don't you? Mnngh... I can smell it on you. You're greedy... I won't share with you.




Hm? Ah, well met! Yes, I thought I could sense the aura of a fierce warrior approaching.
I'm impressed you found my sanctuary here at the top of the world. No doubt you've endured many trials and overcome many foes in your quest to find me.
No, don't speak a word. I, Nailmaster Mato, who was taught the Art of the Nail by the Great Nailsage himself, hereby accept you as my pupil! Let us begin the lesson immediately!

Ah, I can see it in your eyes - you're ready to learn my Nail Art! Shall we begin the lesson immediately?


My pupil, why do you hesitate? Do you think yourself unworthy of my Nail Art?
Do not fret. I too was once like you, unsure of my own strength. Stay here with me and meditate, and once you are ready we can begin the lesson.



You honour me beyond words, my pupil...
Thank you.



My pupil, you have come to visit your old master! This is an honour I scarcely deserve. Please, sit. You are always welcome to meditate here with me.


Before you leave, rest and meditate with me for a while. Your company is always welcome.


Your form... exquisite! Now I know how my own master felt when he passed down his teachings to us.
I hope you don't think me too forward when I say that I consider you to be my child. Yes! When I saw you perform my Nail Art I felt a bond between us suddenly flash into existence!
You honour me beyond words, my pupil... Thank you.



Ah! So my brother Sheo has taught you his Nail Art, the Great Slash! How lucky you are to have trained with him!
Sheo and I were very close when we trained together under the Great Nailsage. He often spoke of becoming tired of the Nail Arts and wanting to try something new.
I'm glad to see he changed his mind and continues to bear the proud title of Nailmaster along with me!



That Nail Art, the Dash Slash... learnt from my brother Oro, was it not?
So he is still alive then. Hm. I still haven't forgotten what he owes me and I never will.
Oh, I'm sorry. I shouldn't bother you with such things. I'm happy that you were able to train under another Nailmaster and grow stronger, my pupil.



That charm...! Could it be?! Only the Great Nailsage himself could have bestowed such a thing!
Your achievements humble my own, my pupil. I myself have sworn never to lay eyes on the Nailsage again. Not until I have truly mastered his teachings.
But if you see him again, please... let him know that I am forever grateful.



My brother, Sheo... how fare you in that green kingdom of thorns you call home? I think of you every time I raise my nail...
Do you ever close your eyes and remember the years we spent together with Oro and our master? I like to think you do...






Hmph. How did you find me, down here where the world ends?
Yes, I know why you're here. You came to learn a Nail Art from the legendary Nailmaster Oro.
It is the law of the Great Nailsage that I must pass down my teachings to those who are worthy.
But no law forbids me from exacting a payment for my time. If you truly wish to train under me, prove it with Geo!

So what will it be, traveller? Will you pay the price asked of you, or will you leave this place unenlightened?



"Those who do not share their strength will never learn." My master used to say that.
Substitute "Geo" for "strength" and you'll have my own views on the matter. Begone!



I have taught you all I can. Go back into the world, traveller. Leave me to my solitude.


You've returned, though you were not invited.
As my pupil, it is lawful that I allow you rest and shelter, but do not stay longer than you need to.



Rest here if you must, but do not stay longer than you need to.



Hmph. I must say, you are an excellent pupil.
Your skill with the nail, and your thirst to become stronger... you remind me of my brothers.
I have taught you all I can. Go back into the world, traveller, and leave me to my solitude.



That Nail Art... you have been training with my brother Mato.
He has strange notions of loyalty and honour. I'm sure he was difficult and unpleasant to train under.
Did he mention my name to you? If he does, tell him to be patient. He'll be waiting a while longer before I give him what he wants.

I see you've been taught a Nail Art by my brother Sheo. How fortunate of you.
Yes, he was the mightiest of the Great Nailsage's pupils, far outshining Mato and myself. My brother and my master loved him very much.
He was always aloof, but... not unkind. When we last spoke, he said he was going to teach himself something completely new. I wonder if he achieved that goal.



That charm you bear... It seems the Great Nailsage has deemed you skilled enough in the Nail Arts to earn his highest esteem.
I do not begrudge you his love. You have earned it.
And perhaps by helping you along your path, I have redeemed myself... if only a little.



Brother Mato, in your lonely home at the top of the world... do you still think of me as an enemy?
In the future, if you will listen... I will tell you why I chose to tread this path.




What is this? Do you think it becoming for a pupil to drop rubbish in their master's home? Or is this gaudy flower your idea of a gift?
I've no use for such things. Take it with you, or else I'll toss it outside to be eaten by vermin.





A visitor! Why have you crept in here, little grub? Perhaps, like me, you have a taste for discovering new things?
I am Sheo, and in a previous life I was a Nailmaster. Yes, the only thing that drove me was becoming stronger and honing my skills with a nail.
I imagined it was my one calling in life, but that feeling faded over time. Now I seek a new calling, something that speaks to my soul and compels me forward.
That's why I spend my time here, secluded, trying to master the art of creation. Painting, sculpting... these things bring a different kind of pleasure.
Mmm. You don't seem very moved by what I've said. Was it Sheo the Nailmaster you were looking for? Did you come to learn a Nail Art? I'll teach you if you insist...



Something about your bearing... I feel as though you haven't yet abandoned the way of the nail. I can teach you something, if you like...



Oh? Have you, too, grown weary of the weight of a nail? I understand. Stay, if you like, and we can make art together.



I have spare brushes and plenty of paint. Once you tire of the nail, feel free to join me in my art.



So, your travels have brought you back. What have you learnt? How have you grown?
Myself? I am still trying to capture something with my brush... although I'm not quite sure what that thing is.



So! My work, does it move you? The wielding of a nail, the wielding of a brush... these things are not so different.
We cut into the world so that we can peer deeper inside.
For now though, I have nothing more to teach you. Your path forwards... only you can see it. Good luck.

That Nail Art you've learnt, the Cyclone Slash. That was always Mato's favourite.
It must have made him ecstatic to have a pupil like you. He always wanted to pass down what he'd learnt to a new generation.
He was not the most skilled pupil himself, but his enthusiasm and his kindness set him apart. I'm glad he achieved what he desired for so long. To be a teacher...



So you met my brother Oro and convinced him to teach you his Nail Art. Hmm.
It's been a long time since I've seen him. I wonder how much he's changed. He always seemed to be haunted by something, though I never learned what.
No matter the distance between us though, we are still brothers. I hope that passing down his learnings to you brought him some happiness.



That charm! Only the Great Nailsage could have given that to you... Seeing how strong you've become... it almost makes me want to take up my nail once more.
But no, I should stay on my current path and keep working at my art. If the Great Nailsage ever comes by, I want to show him how far I've come.


Oh, look who's joined us! We have quite a merry crowd now, don't we?
This fellow came wandering in to my hut, quite distraught and on his own quest for a new calling in life.
We talked, and found a common love of creating and building and honing a craft. So now we make art together!
It's good to have company, I hadn't realised how lonely I was. It's like being with my brothers again! Stay with us, if you like!



Building these models takes patience and a light touch. It's worth it though, seeing the grand old Knights of Hallownest come to life before our eyes.
Mighty Hegemol was always my favourite. What a towering figure he was, though surprisingly soft spoken for one so large.
They were all impressive in their own right, of course. Fierce Dryya, kindly Isma, mysterious Ze'mer ... erm, and the other one.


My brother, Oro... what drove you to hide away deep down at the very edge of that ash swept grave?
Was it pride, or fear, or shame? Perhaps you should lay down your nail if it haunts you so, and find a new calling that eases your soul.






Ah ha! The tiny steps of a tiny creature. You got the look of an adventurer, so we've much in common.
Searching for dangerous places aye? Well you're on the right track.
A long necked critter warned me of a tribe deeper down. Warrior sorts, so she says and I'm itching for some serious combat.
I wasn't hiding, you know. Just napping before I head off again.
Bound to be facing even more deadly beasts soon, so I gotta keep me strength up.
Keep sharp my adventurous friend. Stay alive and let's meet again on the road ahead.



Am I in over my head? Even these shroom creatures almost did me in and far nastier things await further down.
Curse me and my foolish bravado! If I could shed my pride, I'd be asking this tiny warrior for help.





Greetings tiny creature. You got the look of an adventurer alright. I'd call myself the same but this dreadful place makes me feel inadequate.
This whole area swarms with deadly critters, biting, burning, scratching types. I'd thought to test my strength against them. Now that bravado has left me and all I feel is tired and sore.
I'm taking what brief rest I can, then I'm off in search of less terrifying challenge. This nest is no place to die.



Such bad luck. The critters about here are just terrifying. Those scuttling legs, those gnashing teeth.
Tis not the end I'd ever want to meet.





My friend, you dealt with all of those beasts?
I'm ashamed to say... I was hiding. Those ghastly things chased me and I ran. If you hadn't come along, who knows if I'd ever have survived.
Others take me for a fearsome warrior, what with my impressive size, but this kingdom's beasts, I wonder if I'm just no match for them?...


Oh! Ahh. Such a tiny creature, yet you dealt with all of those beasts?
I wasn't hiding, if that's what you're thinking. Just waiting for the right moment to pounce!...No... I can't speak such a lie... I was hiding.
Those ghastly things chased me and I ran. If you hadn't come along, who knows if I'd ever have survived.
Others take me for a fearsome warrior, what with my impressive size, but this kingdom's beasts, I wonder if I'm just no match for them?...


Enough! I cannot wallow in my weakness. I must take strength from your example!
You act so confident in battle. You show no fear before your foes. I'll try my best to do the same.
I look forward to our next contact, tiny saviour. Then you'll meet a warrior with courage to match you own.



I could only hide. What warrior am I? ...



Such luck! This tiny one appears at just the right moment. And what masterful skill it shows!
As a warrior it sets powerful precedent. I'd do well to learn from its form.





Ahhh tiny warrior. Then, you too come to test yourself against that traitorous tribe?
A deadly bunch they are that roost within these glades. I'd once've stayed well clear of them, but your actions have shown me the truth of it. We must face down our fears or be defeated by them.
If we both make it through, we can swap stories of our adventures. I'd look forward to that!
Stay alive my friend. Whatever you seek in here, I'm sure that tribe won't look lightly on our intrusion.



It's time! I'll face that fear. Nola will be proud.
Final Encounter, Traitor Lord or Dirtmouth


Well now that was something! A true battle of mighty warriors. So intense. So climactic. It's really everything I could have ever hoped for.
Thanks for all your help, my friend. For a tiny bug you set a valiant example. We'll meet again, I'm sure of it.
Be on my way soon. Nola is waiting and I'm done down here. Just savouring the moment a little longer.


Ah! Tiny warrior. I'm glad I could see you again. You've inspired me! I'm about to head off in search of other places and other foes.
This quiet town's the perfect stop before I scale the cliffs and head out onto the plains.
I'll be off soon. It's a dangerous thing to trek the desolate sands beyond the kingdom. I'll need all my strength to survive them.
First though, a good rest is in order.


Dream NailedNola, I'm coming. More challenging foes are out there, somewhere, but none in this ruin could take me to you...





"Sorry I missed you! If you're feeling lost, why not pop up to our store in Dirtmouth and purchase a map of this area? Available now for an excellent price! - Cornifer"





Hmm? Ah, hello there. Come down to explore these beautiful old ruins? Don't mind me... I've a fondness for exploring myself. Getting lost and finding your way again is a pleasure like no other. We're exquisitely lucky, you and I... I'm a cartographer by trade, and I'm working on mapping this area right now. Would you like to buy a copy of my work so far?



Not interested, then? Yes, quite understandable. Exploring without a map, finding your own way through unknown caverns... All very nourishing for the soul... Perhaps we'll meet again on our travels.


Hmm? Have you changed your mind about buying a map?



You don't have enough Geo? Ah, I understand. I'd give you the map as a gift, but I don't think my wife would be very happy if I did. "All our food is made of Geo", as they say.



Oh, by the way, I haven't introduced myself have I? Yes, I should apologise for that. When you spend a lot of time by yourself, with just your own thoughts, you forget the niceties of conversation.
My name is Cornifer, and I've always loved exploring the world. Why, when I was first hatched I wandered off immediately, leaving my brothers and sisters and poor mother behind! ... That's why as soon as I could I moved to Dirtmouth with my wife. A huge, unending Kingdom to explore right on our doorstep. Who could resist?... Anyway, I'll let you return to your travels. With a little luck, we'll meet again. Be safe and farewell!
A map can be a useful thing, but it alone won't show you where you are. If you've not the head for directions, I suggest purchasing a compass from my wife, Iselda.
She's just now opening our new map shop in Dirtmouth, selling all sorts of useful things to wanderers like yourself. She'll even sell some of my old maps from time to time.
I pop back to see her whenever I finish mapping an area. She's always so excited to see me.



...To chart the world. What joy... If only Iselda could share the thrill...





Hello again! Still winding your way through these beautiful highways? Just imagine how they must have looked during the kingdom's height, thick with traffic and bustling with life! I wish I could have seen it... Oh, and I suppose I should ask... are you interested in buying a copy of my map for this area...?



How are you finding my map? I've tried to fill out as much as I can, but every map is a work in progress... If you'd like to fill out some of the map yourself you can purchase some mapping supplies from my wife up in Dirtmouth. We've set up a little store to help make ends meet.





Isn't this a contrast from the Crossroads? Such a humid, lively place. The roads twist and turn in the most wonderful ways... I've done my best to chart the area ahead, though I must admit some of the area's inhabitants proved quite a nuisance.



I ran into another traveller as I made my way down here. I tried to call out to her as she dashed past but she barely even glanced in my direction. Not an appreciator of maps like you and I, obviously.





Ahh my short friend, you've caught me at the perfect time. I'm just about finished charting these noxious caverns... Very territorial types make their homes within this area. I'd suggest avoiding them where possible... Further below some strange thin creatures gave me quite a scare. They seemed an intelligent bunch... In my youth I'd have braved their caves but I fear my matured physique wouldn't be able to outrun them where they to turn violent.



There's a potent odour about these caverns and far worse for me I suspect. My trunk is quite sensitive whereas you don't seem to possess a scent organ of any kind... Is it that you cannot smell at all?





Isn't this a change from those twisting natural caverns? The rain does cast something of a sadness upon it all but the architecture is simply splendid... Charting such a different space is quite the challenge, though one I've eagerly undertaken... Perhaps you'd care to purchase a copy of my achievements so far?



We've both come far to reach this grand place. While I'm about these buildings, I must remember to collect a trinket or two for Iselda.





This p-place gives me the creeps. Vicious little creatures burst out all o-over the place and the passages are a dark, twisting maze... Unless you're well prepared, I'd urge you to leave, though if you're feeling strong enough to descend, would you like to buy my map?


Hh-hello. I'm Cornifer. I'm a m-mapper by trade. I've tried to chart the dense nest beneath here b-b-but it's proving too dangerous for a bug like me... Vicious little creatures burst out all o-over the place and the passages are a dark, twisting maze. Even with my good head for direction, I-I-I've had enough... Unless you're well prepared, I'd urge you to leave, though if you're feeling strong enough to descend, would you like to buy m-my meagre map?


N-not interested in the map?



Y-you want to buy a map after all?



N-not enough Geo?



W-w-what a horrid warren of angry beasts. It's going to take a whole lot of effort to climb out of this dark pit. I think I-I'll hide here a little longer.





Have you heard of Hallownest's Queen? Apparently these gardens were once her retreat... Now some vicious types are crawling all over the place and the plants have grown wild... As inhospitable as it is, I've enjoyed my travels here. Care to see my efforts?



There's a Stag Station at the heart of these gardens. I would've taken my rest there if someone hadn't gone and locked the door.





Come to scale the mountain? I've heard tale of a summit way up there. Too far for me though and I'm not really one for heights.



I jabbed myself on one of those crystals back there. Awful sharp they are and all over the place. You'd best watch yourself if you're heading up.





Ho ho! Aren't these waterways thrilling? A labyrinth of pipes and tunnels... I couldn't have asked for a better place to employ my talents. It's all so orderly, so considered, nothing like the crude irregularity of those caverns... Ahh but so sad, my trunk is telling me those Fungal Wastes are close and I sense my damp adventure may have reached its end. Guess I'll be calling this map done.



I'd wager these pipes and chambers were once used to carry the city's waste. Would've been a horrid stench down here. Thankfully that constant rain has flushed them clean.




Ho ho! As odd as much of Hallownest can be, there's a whole new level of strangeness about these caves... Did you see that dark gate below? It's quite unsettling to be near. I did my best to avoid it... Fortunate for me, I found another route in, though I did end up a little singed after wading through some acid.


There's a large building just below here, out in the middle of a lake and a marvel to observe... I tried to head in, but it's become a nest for those slimey, see-through creatures... Ugh. They're just so... gross, and they give a nasty shock to touch.




Old caverns these ones. Can't you just feel the weight of the kingdom above? It's a heavy thing alright. I reckon not many'd reach these depths. We're pioneers you and I, at least in recent history.



It's a long trek back to the shop from here. I'll be resting my legs a little longer. Not too long though! It won't do to have Iselda worrying after me.




Isn't this a cozy hole? I've been venturing about that wilderness beside here and thought a moment's break was well called for... The landscape's all rather serene this side of the city, though the inhabitants are as ferocious as ever.


Buying mapJudging by this wall, the city's folk seemed hesitant to build further into these caverns. I wonder what kept them at bay?





Enjoying the bracing air? We're quite close to Hallownest's borders and those desolate plains that surround it... In this direction, I'm about as far as I'm willing to go, though it's been a pleasant change from the tight confines of the caverns... I've drawn out a small map for the area. It's a simple one and more for completion really. Not knowing the full extents of a region can be quite frustrating.



I chanced upon a strange bug atop these cliffs. His house isn't far from here... A very imposing figure he was and no doubt lethal with a Nail. I suspect you two might share more in common than him and I.







Come no closer, ghost.
I've seen you, creeping through the undergrowth, stalking me.
This old kingdom... A terrible thing awakens. I can smell it in the air...
I know what you are. I know what you'd try to do. I can't allow it...



Too weak, little ghost...
No shadow will haunt me...
Only pity for your cursed kind.




Again we meet little ghost.
I'm normally quite perceptive. You I underestimated, though I've since guessed the truth.
You've seen beyond this kingdom's bounds. Yours is resilience born of two voids.
It's no surprise then you've managed to reach the heart of this world. In so doing, you shall know the sacrifice that keeps it standing.
If, knowing that truth, you'd still attempt a role in Hallownest's perpetuation, seek the Grave in Ash and the mark it would grant to one like you.





So you'd pursue the deeper truth? It isn't one the weak could bear.
Prove yourself ready to face it. I'll not hold back. My needle is lethal and I'd feel no sadness in a weakling's demise.
Show me you can accept this Kingdom's past and claim responsibility for its future.



...So strong...
You could do it, if you had the will.
But could you raise your nail once knowing its tragic conception? And knowing yourself?...
Then do it, Ghost of Hallownest! Head onward. Burn that mark upon your shell and claim yourself as King.



From where does it draw this strength?
Can it succeed?
Is it strong enough?




Ghost. I see you've faced the place of your birth, and now drape yourself in the substance of its shadow.
Though our strength is born of similar source, that part of you, that crucial emptiness, I do not share.
Funny then, that such darkness gives me hope. Within it, I see the chance of change.
A difficult journey you would face, but a choice it can create. Prolong our world's stasis or face the heart of its infection.
I'd urge you to take that harder path, but what end may come, the decision rests with you.
Dream Nailed
...It faced the void, and ascends unscathed... Could it unite such vast darkness?...




So you've slain the Beast... and you head towards that fated goal.
I'd not have obstructed this happening, but it caused me some pain to knowingly stand idle.
...What? You might think me stern but I'm not completely cold.
We do not choose our mothers, or the circumstance into which we are born. Despite all the ills of this world, I'm thankful for the life she granted me.
It's quite a debt I owed. Only in allowing her to pass, and taking the burden of the future in her stead, can I begin to repay it.
Leave me now, ghost. Allow me a moment alone before this bedchamber becomes forever a shrine.



...Mother... Forgive my inaction... but another path may be possible…




I'm impressed little ghost. You've burdened yourself with the fate of this world, yet you still stand strong.
To break the Dreamer's seals would alone be considered an impossible task, but to accept that void inside yourself, that casts you as something rather exceptional.



The path is opened. One way or another an end awaits inside.
I won't be joining you in this. That space is built to sustain your likes. Its bindings would drain me were I to join.
Don't be surprised. I'll not risk my own life in your attempt, though if the moment presents I'll aid as I'm able.



Ghost of Hallownest, you possess the strength to enact an end of your choosing. Would you supplant our birth-cursed sibling, or would you transcend it?



...Could it achieve that impossible thing? Should it?



...Do they watch us struggle?..
Do you haunt my dreams... Or I yours?
Little Ghost... What dreams we share...





We speak the path of the Master Herald, he who would signal an Age's end. Spawn of self, their minds unite,
Aside the source of acid blight,
Aglow in darkest, winding depths,
Winds all howl above fossilstone steps,
Monarchflys in air set still,
To Root's domain and snail once shrill,
Path of Wyrm, at new lands entered,
There journeys end. The kingdom ventured.





...It's nice that you were able to help your friend. So you're not hungry any more?
Yes, that was quite the appetite. I was impressed. Still, we all move on sooner or later.
To greater things, perhaps? So much can be achieved in just a short time...
...Oh. Excuse me.



...Shouldn't trust the eye they gave you. Rely on your own instincts.
If you've got a keen nose, use it.
And while you're hunting for secrets, beware those who are hunting you!
...Oh. Excuse me.



...The dead can't make use of wealth in any case. What would they spend it on?
Yes, a big brood like that. They need food. And shelter. And toys.
If you keep some for yourself... Well, I think you deserve it. Yes...
...Oh. Excuse me.



...What was called a "hero" in its moment may be called something very different after time has passed.
The crimes and triumphs of our predecessors echo all around us, don't they?
The chains of fate that bind us all together... do you really want to break them?
...Oh. Excuse me.



...Well if things are getting too dangerous down there, maybe it's time to take a break?
Come back up and spend some time hunting, or gathering, or wandering aimlessly.
No, not too much longer now...
...Oh. Excuse me.



...I haven't seen her, no. I'm sure you'll remember where you left her eventually.
Trust the moon, or yourself. Or trust her. You need to trust something, that's my point.
Hmm? No, not him. No. Absolutely not.
...Oh. Excuse me.



...It's not by tools that you'll triumph, it's through your smarts, your speed, your determination....



...Oh. I see. So you've been following me around then? I hope my travels haven't confused your own, distracted you.
Then again, a meandered journey still has meaning. It is, after all, from a journey we find our purpose, though a stop is more than just a stop.
And my if those stops can't be lovely things, wouldn't you say? Transcendent plateaus, distant sandy lands, vast ancient kingdoms. Yours was not the first, nor will it be the last, but it's a unique and special thing nonetheless.
Now, with my duties here finished, it's time I made graceful departure. Till next time my friend. Tis a long road we tread, but a joyous one.
Until our paths cross again…



Nyush oola mumu? Shruba dungo ola, ola mu... gungi.
Gungi, gungi... Mishi umo sanga. Poggi u dungo?
Mumushi ola, mumushi u nungoo. Myusha? Dungo myusha? Gungi, gungi...
Dream Nailed
...Wyrms pull bugs into their thrall,
Till ages pass and kingdoms fall,
Caps and shells may fall to dust,
But Mr Mushroom readjusts...
Shroomish Dream Nailed
...Mishi umo sanga. Dogo!..







Hello there! How delightful to meet another traveller on these forgotten roads.
You're a short one, but you've a strong look about you.
I'm Quirrel. I have something of an obsession with uncharted places.
This ancient kingdom holds many fascinating mysteries, and one of the most intriguing of them is standing right before us.
A great stone egg, lying in the corpse of an ancient kingdom. And this egg...Is it warm? It certainly gives off a unique air.
Can it be opened? There are strange marks all over it...
I do so love a mystery...And who knows what other marvels lie even deeper below us...
For so long I've felt drawn here. So many tales full of wonders and horrors. No longer could I resist. I just had to see it for myself.
And what a time I chose to arrive! This dead world has sprung to life.
The creatures are riled up and the earth rumbles. The air is thick. I wonder what could have brought it all about?
To persevere in this ruin, that old nail alone just won't be enough. Though that's no problem! One only has to look around.
Plenty have come before us and most have met their grisly end, many more equipped than you and I.
I'm sure they wouldn't mind were a fellow explorer to relieve them of their tools. It's a kindness really. The dead shouldn't be burdened with such things.
Did you pass that town above? What a gloomy little place. And such majesty hidden right beneath!
I suppose that's why they've all headed down here. Who could resist such possibilities?



Truly a marvel…



What is this feeling?... So familiar. Drawn forward yet repelled. And those shapes upon the door...To gaze directly at them turns my mind to fog.






Oh, hello there! Seems we both tread far from the path.
I can hardly believe those dusty old highways led to such a lush and lively place!
This building suggests some form of worship, though its idol has clearly been long forgotten. Doubles equally well for a moment's respite.
I saw a strange fellow out there. He seemed quite taken by the lake.
I'd planned to offer greetings, though figured I'd first tend to my nail on chance our meeting goes poorly.
Your nail looks a fine instrument, but it's showing signs of wear.
I'd wager up there it would take you far. Down here however, I suspect you'll soon meet dangers the surface world can't match.



Hallownest is perfect for vigilant explorers like us. So tense and thrilling. In this place, you're either alert or you're dead.



That lake... a revered presence once slept deep within... Did it? What would make me think such things?






Isn't this something. I'd not expected to discover so huge a Stag Station after that foggy descent.
The bugs of Hallownest must've been an impressive lot, building such grand structures so far into these wilds.
Seems the dangerous creatures about haven't yet made their way in here. It's the perfect place for a quick rest.
Can you imagine this place in its time? Hordes of bugs travelling about the Kingdom; stag bells ringing; the station bustling with activity and life.
Now only our like even know it exists.
That's a special thing I suppose, to cherish these sights, even in their decay.



Is it that, just faintly, you can still hear the echo of the bells?



Even those great stags bowed to Hallownest's King. What devotion he must have inspired.






Hello again! I suppose you've already met with the tribe of this village, hmm? They seem a little distrustful of strangers... to put it lightly.
They're not brutes though, no. The sickness in the air that clouds the mind of lesser beasts... they resist it. They retain their intellect and their honour, though also their lethal traditions.
I've some words of advice, my friend. If you plan to challenge the lords of this tribe, your blunted nail may prove inadequate.
There is a city nearby, the old capital of Hallownest. I've heard a Nailsmith resides there. Seek the old bug out and you may find progress that much easier.



My own route takes me towards that great city. If you search out the Nailsmith, it may not be long until our paths cross again.



...Who was it that told me of the Nailsmith? I can't even remember, yet I can almost picture the smith






The capital lies before us my friend. What a sombre place it seems and one that holds the answers to many a mystery.
I too have felt the pull of this place, though now I sit before it I find myself hesitant to descend.
Is it fear I wonder, or something else that holds me back?


The city looks to be built into an enormous cavern, and the rain pours down from cracks in the stone above.
There must be a lot of water up there somewhere. I suppose, if the cave roof stayed strong this long, it should hold for us.
The rain seems to come down endlessly, though. I'd like to see where it all comes from before I leave this Kingdom. What a sight it must be!


If you look down from here, through the rain, you can just make out those twisted sentries, their husks still stuck in endless patrol.
I'd be cautious around them my short friend. Their training will not have been forgotten. This city presents some formidable foes.



Isn't this a wonderful spot for a rest? I so love the sound of the rain upon glass.



Hallownest's heart...Magnificent even in mourning.






Hello, hello! What a thrill this is, to find such warm comfort amidst the den of beasts.
This is a ferocious place no doubt. Supposedly, there's a village deep in the warren. Its inhabitants never accepted Hallownest's King.



Why not join me for a time? These waters do wonders for weary legs.



This one too must seek the village at the nest's heart. What mystery the purpose that sees it share my path.






Ahh, quite a view, no?
I'm not surprised you survived the trek through these shimmering caverns.
There's an air of strength about you. I suspect it would be quite intimidating, if not for your small stature.
Did it sadden you to see those miners below, still labouring at their endless task?
Even overcome, strong purpose has been imprinted upon their husks.
The crystal ore is said to contain a sort of energy, not as powerful as the soul the city dwellers harnessed but far less lethal.
...Strange to know such ancient facts. I wonder from where my knowledge comes?
At this high vantage I can just make it out, the light from that sad little town.
I doubt its residents could even comprehend the scale of the world that surrounds them.


So small it seems…



...These winds cry lonely. Better the comfort of rock above one's head.






Doesn't this kingdom just abound with surprises? A building atop an acid lake.
Despite the sight, I can't help but feel... familiarity? Something stirs in my mind, though I can't yet tell what..
I'd thought it my lust for discovery that led me here but now there seems something else.
This building beckons me.



I can feel it calling... Dare I head in?


...Who are you, that leads me to this place?






Did she call you too then? I realise it's no coincidence we arrive together.
Though much of my memory is blank, this place I recall.
Within these chambers the Teacher sought to store the Kingdom's knowledge and at its core, she stored herself.
To save Hallownest, the Teacher willingly became a seal, but upon herself she enacted an additional protection.
Though I cannot recall its happening, I played a part in that feat.
She called me here, now, to reverse that protection. All in aid of you.



Ahh, but her mind is still locked to you. That final, powerful protection stays in place.
If you would attempt to break her seal, you've first to discover the means to open a mind. Such tools may exist to perform the feat, though in my own travels I've not come across one.
I'd heard it told the Kingdom's moths did delve amongst dreams and the dead. Perhaps you'd seek them out?



Do not hesitate. The choice to reform was hers, not mine.
She knows what you would do and seems to welcome it.
Why do you hesitate? Mercy is a fine thing, but you and her agree this must be done. Be brave, friend.



The Madam's life is extinguished and with it her seal breaks.
It's a heavy thing you attempt, but I've seen your prowess up close and she too believed you capable.



Be on your journey then, and allow me rest a time. With the deed complete, I begin to feel my age.



To think, such a small creature would bear this kingdom's fate.






Again we meet my short friend. Here at last, I feel at peace.
Twice I've seen this world and though my service may have stripped the first experience from me, I'm thankful I could witness its beauty again.
Hallownest is a vast and wondrous thing, but in as many wonders as it holds, I've seen none quite so intriguing as you.
Ha. My flattery returns only silent stoicism. I like that.
I like that very much.


...Incredible…



To live an age, yet remember so little... Perhaps I should be thankful? All tragedy erased. I see only wonders...







Pale thing. You wear that nail with ease. If you're in search of combat, you'll find no great warriors in this decaying burrow.  I've heard an arena exists somewhere below. One built for our like. Meet me there and we'll test what skills you possess. I'll be heading down soon. Come and find me if you dare.



Hallownest... What challengers await in its ruin?


This little squib clearly fears me. I'd kill it right here, but it'd be too pitiful an end.






Ehh. Pale thing. You use these old lines? Pathetic. A real warrior carries himself to combat. He has no need for such convenience.



Leave me be. It's the arena I seek. I've already wasted far too long on these cursed roads.


Those old stags could've been ferocious fighters. If only they weren't so servile…






Garrgh. What a calm place. It's action I want, vicious and deadly battle. This serenity is a bore.
Talking again
So peaceful. So dull.



That place calls to me. Somewhere beyond this lake, perhaps?






Pale one. You found it too then, this perfect place. I'll soon be entering the battle. Just taking a moment to rest first. Though few could truly challenge me, I'm hoping this arena presents the sort of brutal challenge I'm after.



I'll crush them all. Oh, and you. You'll see me at my deadly best. You think this shell a defensive arm? Well I'll give you fair warning, it conceals a deadly surprise. Pray you never find out what that is.



...The perfect challenge. I can already taste my victory…




...Why?...







Just what do you think you're doing?! You dare to come between me and my prey? Is it a habit of yours to scurry about, getting in the way and causing bother?
What are you still bothering me for? I'm a Knight. I'm not interested in your childish games. I need my rest.
Begone! Lest I draw my nail...
Know this, cur. I am Zote the Mighty, a knight of great renown. Cross me again, and you'll find out why they call my weapon 'Life Ender'!